PUMA TRAINING 2015
Annual Report 2015

TIMELINE

PUMA TIMELINE OUR HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015
RUNNING INNOVATION IGNITE

RED BULL PARTNERSHIP ANNOUNCEMENT

LIGHTEST FOOTBALL BOOT TO DATE

IAAF WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS

LEXI THOMPSON WINS AGAIN

UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE

The World’s Fastest Man Usain Bolt is at the
heart of a spectacular stunt in New York City’s
Times Square to launch the PUMA IGNITE,
which provides maximum energy return, comfort and optimal durability.

PUMA announces a new long-term partnership with the INFINITI RED BULL RACING F1
team. Effective from January 2016, PUMA
has become the official licensed partner and
official supplier of team and racewear.

PUMA introduces its lightest football match
boot to date. The evoSPEED SL is designed
to give footballers a new game advantage by
enhancing speed and agility.

9 Gold Medals, 4 Silver and 5 Bronze across PUMA’s
teams: The Athletics World Championships in Beijing are a big PUMA success with six-time Olympic
Champion Usain Bolt winning three gold medals
and further cementing his reputation as a legend.

COBRA PUMA GOLF athlete Lexi Thompson
wins the LPGA KEG Hana Bank Championship
in South Korea, proving her outstanding talent
once again with her second victory of the year
and sixth overall.

As an official partner of COP21, PUMA equips
180 students in charge of welcoming visitors
during the UN Climate Change Conference
taking place from 30 November to 11 December in Paris.

AUGUST

OCTOBER

FEBRUARY

JANUARY

APRIL

MARCH

JUNE

DECEMBER

MAY

JULY

SEPTEMBER

NOVEMBER

LAUNCH OF THE EVOPOWER 1.2 FG

EXTENSION WITH ITALIAN FOOTBALL FEDERATION

ARSENAL RECORD FA CUP WIN

CHILE WINS COPA AMÉRICA

PUMA BY RIHANNA DEBUT

EURO 2016 KIT LAUNCH

PUMA kicks off the year with the evolution of
its most powerful football boot. Shortly after
the launch, PUMA starts its “Head to Head”
campaign with its most prominent players
competing in evoSPEED and evoPOWER boots.

Together with the Italian Football Federation (FIGC),
PUMA announces a new comprehensive partnership
extending and increasing PUMA’s marketing rights
to manage the entire global licensing portfolio of the
federation’s assets.

Arsenal FC wins the FA Cup for the second
year in a row to become the most successful
club in the history of the competition with a record of 12 titles.

For the first time ever, the Chilean football
national team wins the Copa América wearing
PUMA kits. The host team Chile beats Argentina 4-1 on penalties to win the title.

The “Creeper”, the maiden sneaker from
PUMA BY RIHANNA under her FENTY Label,
comes into the stores and is sold out within
hours. It is the first in a series of Rihanna-inspired footwear and apparel styles.

PUMA introduces the new home kits for Italy,
Switzerland, Austria, Czech Republic and Slovakia for the European Championships 2016 in
France featuring the new apparel technology
ACTV Thermo-R that helps players maintain
an optimum body temperature.

CONTENT

CONTENT

1 | TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Foreword
2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW
Company
Operations Strategy
Brand
Brand Strategy
PUMA Women´s Brand Positioning
Product
Performance
Sportstyle
Licensing
Distribution
Distribution Strategy
Sustainability
Sustainability Strategy
Sustainability Targets
New Targets ”10FOR20”
Social Sustainability

2 | PUMA TRAINING

4
5
8
8
9
11
12
14
16
17
28
34
36
37
40
41
47
52
53

Health and Safety
Environmental Sustainability
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration
Anti-Corruption Efforts
Our Employees
Independent Assurance Statement

56
58
62
63
64
73

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT
Overview 2015
PUMA Group Essential Information
Commercial Activities and
Organizational Structure

75
76
78

Targets and Strategy
Product Development and Design
Sourcing
Management System
Economic Report
General Economic Conditions
Sales
Results of Operations

Dividends
Regional Development
Net Assets and Financial Position
Cash Flow
Compensation Report
Risk and Opportunity Management
Information Concerning Takeovers
Supplemental Report and Outlook
Corporate Governance Report

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

129

Auditor´s Certificate

162

5 | REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE
BOARD

163

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

167

7 | THE PUMA SHARE

177

STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position

115 8 | FURTHER INFORMATION

180

Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income

117
118

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
Statement of Changes in Equity
Changes in Fixed Assets

119
120
128

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
78
79
81
82
85
86
86
86
89

92
93
95
97
99
101
106
108
110

116

PUMA’S TRAINING GOALS

CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON BECOMING

2014

2015

FIX THE BASICS

TRAIN HARD

2016+

CELEBRATE RESULTS

REPOSITION PUMA AS THE FASTEST SPORTS BRAND IN THE WORLD

P|4

IMPROVE THE PRODUCT ENGINE

P | 16

OPTIMIZE THE DISTRIBUTION QUALITY

P | 36

INCREASE THE SPEED OF PUMA’S ORGANIZATION

P|8

RENEW THE IT INFRASTRUCTURE

P|8

PUMA TRAINING | 3

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Foreword

Letter from Bjørn Gulden 5

FOREWORD
Letter from Bjørn Gulden

Dear Shareholders of PUMA,
2015 was a successful year, in which
we have further strengthened the PUMA
brand, presented better products and further improved the co-operation with our
retail partners. Our hard work has started to
show results: 2015 delivered the highest net
sales we have ever had based on growth
across all regions and product categories.
We know there is still a lot to improve – but
I am happy to say that we achieved progress on all of our key priorities towards our
mission of becoming the World’s Fastest
Sports Brand.
In 2015 we focused on five strategic
priorities: Increasing PUMA’s brand heat,
improving our product engine, optimizing
our distribution quality, increasing the speed
within our organization, and upgrading our
IT infrastructure.

“In 2015 we
achieved progress
on all of our key
priorities.”
One focus of our
activities in 2015 was
clearly to continue the
repositioning of our
brand, which began
in 2014 with the largest brand campaign in
our company history. Our
second “Forever Faster”
advertising campaign in
2015 focused on our brand
ambassadors and showed how
they were training with PUMA
products to get into shape for the
major events in 2016. Rihanna

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“Together as a team, we are
constantly training towards our
mission of becoming the Fastest
Sports Brand in the world.
#NoMatterWhat”
Bjørn Gulden, CEO

PUMA TRAINING | 5

1 | TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS

joined Usain Bolt, Arsenal London and other athletes for the campaign. That included
her first TV spot for our new training shoe
IGNITE XT.
With regards to the improvement of our
product engine, our collections in 2015
stood out for their clearer design, more
innovative technologies, and greater commerciality of the products. Not only was
the feedback from our retail partners more
positive, but also the increase in sell-in
and sell-through shows that the product
improvements have started to resonate
well with our partners and consumers. The
product highlights in 2015 included our new
running shoe technology IGNITE, which we
have built into a cornerstone of our Running
and Training category. In Football, we continued to strengthen our product platforms
PUMA TRAINING | 6

evoSPEED and evoPOWER with new products such as the evoSPEED SL, which is
the lightest football shoe in the market at
103 grams. In Lifestyle, we introduced the
first shoe models designed by Rihanna. We
will launch a complete women’s collection
of shoes and textiles under the “FENTY
by Rihanna” label in 2016, which was presented at the New York Fashion Week in
February 2016.

“The increase in sell-in and sellthrough shows that the product
improvements have started to
resonate well with our partners
and consumers.”
Through joint product and marketing programs with our key retailers, we managed
to further improve the quality of our sales

and distribution. In 2015, we continued
the roll-out of the retail concept “PUMA
Lab”, initially launched with Foot Locker in
2014, both in the U.S. and in first locations
in Europe and Australia. During the year
we intensified our collaboration with other
well-known retailers such as Finish Line,
Champs, and INTERSPORT with the aim of
improving the presence of the PUMA brand
in stores, better communicating our product
promise on site, and thereby achieving a
sustained sales increase.
PUMA’s own retail stores saw the launch
of our new “Forever Faster” store concept,
which improves the presentation of our
products and related technologies and
strengthens our position as a sports brand.
This concept was first introduced at group
headquarters in Herzogenaurach and

then in more than 20 additional locations
throughout the year. To further improve
and expand our online presence, we have
rolled out and further enhanced our integrated web shop in 2015.
One of the key projects in terms of our
organizational structure was standardizing and optimizing the processes between
PUMA and its suppliers by establishing a
new platform to manage global order and
invoice flows. Beyond that, PUMA has also
made further progress in the modernization
of our IT setup, which included the optimization of our basic IT-infrastructure and
improved internal workflows.
Furthermore, we simplified our organization
in other areas to make processes faster. For
example by merging our two non-perfor-

mance product areas Sportstyle and Fundamentals under joint leadership. In addition,
we have combined the two regions Europe
and EEMEA under joint management and
are serving the heterogeneous Asian markets more effectively now. By integrating
the regional team in APAC into the global
organization we eliminated this additional
reporting layer and gave local management
direct access to our global resources. We
are very confident that all of these changes and investments will bring PUMA a step
closer to becoming the Fastest Sports Brand
in the World.
I am especially proud to see our positive
development in the women’s business,
where our co-operation with Rihanna and a
strong product offering have increased the
interest from both retailers and consumers.

We believe that “The future is female”. Athletic wear is turning into fashion as women
are increasingly integrating sportswear and
sports-inspired pieces into their daily outfits.
PUMA as the most fashion-forward global
sports brand has both the sports authenticity and the fashion credibility to own the
space where the gym meets the runway.
This is why 2016 and the coming seasons
will see us increasing our strategic focus
on the female target group. As our brand
ambassador and Creative Director, Rihanna
is a key element of this strategy and will continue to influence both our Performance and
Sportstyle women’s collections with her intuitive, highly individual style.

“We want to own the space where
the gym meets the runway”

Sustainability also remains a priority for us.
We have finished our 2010 to 2015 target
period with significant reductions in paper
consumption and waste creation for our
own entities. In addition, we met our target
of improving social standards at PUMA’s
third-party suppliers and successfully finished a large-scale resource efficiency
program for our key suppliers in Asia. We
remain committed to the United Nations
Global Compact and its ten principles and
have set ourselves ten ambitious new sustainability targets that we aim to reach by
2020.

and belief in us. The positive development in
2015 would not have been possible without
the hard work of everyone at PUMA. This is
also reflected by the theme of this Annual
Report, “PUMA Training”. We are all training
to become a little bit better and faster every
day. Through our continuous training, we have
laid the groundwork to capitalize on an amazing sports year in 2016 – with the Olympic
Games in Rio, the Copa América in the USA
and the UEFA Euro in France. 2016 will see
us training towards better products, more and
better marketing and an even closer co-operation with our retailers.

We know that our people are our biggest
asset. This is why I would like to take this
opportunity to express my sincerest thanks
to our team at PUMA – as well as to you,
our shareholders, for your continued support

Yours,

Bjørn Gulden
PUMA TRAINING | 7

COMPANY OVERVIEW

COMPANY
Operations Strategy 9

OPERATIONS
STRATEGY

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“All our actions share one
common goal – to become
‘Forever Faster’ in providing
services to our customers.
#NoMatterWhat”
Lars Sørensen, Chief Operating Officer

In order to achieve our vision of becoming the
fastest sports brand in the world, 2015 saw continued
investments into better and faster collections, into our
brand, our organization, our distribution and our
IT infrastructure.
PUMA’s Global Operations department
under the leadership of Chief Operating
Officer Lars Sørensen comprises our product development, sourcing, trading and
logistics activities as well as the group’s IT
and Business Solutions functions. The joint
ambition of all of these functions is to provide commercial products at the best price
and quality and at the right time to our customers.

Faster lead times, cost
management and better
product availability
In 2015, we continued to reduce our standard
production lead-times across all of our product divisions and implemented fast-track
capabilities. This will enable us to react fast-

er to trends and customer needs. Furthermore, we implemented dedicated footwear
supply chains to gain specialization benefits
across PUMA’s product categories, separating our Performance from Sportstyle and
commodity products. This led to efficiency
benefits in product creation and helped us
to mitigate negative impacts from increasing
labor cost. Our PUMA International Trading
(PIT) organization, which serves as a global
trading hub between our third-party suppliers and the sales subsidiaries of the PUMA
Group, significantly improved the transparency and control over all of our transactions,
resulting in a better on-time delivery performance.

PUMA TRAINING | 9

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Faster Business Solutions for
Faster Business Processes
In order to implement fast business processes and IT systems, PUMA’s Business Solutions team focused on three main areas in
2015: further implementing PUMA’s end-toend trading setup, continuing to build capabilities and processes to improve our design,
development and planning processes, and
optimizing the IT infrastructure.

managing our main product components
such as materials and graphics. These and
other, more basic capabilities, are key for
the implementation of advanced product
management tools in 2016.

tation of Microsoft Outlook and complementary communication and collaboration
capabilities.

COO ROADMAP
RELIABILITY

TRANSPARENCY

PUMA International Trading (PIT):
2015 saw the global rollout of our trading
platform PUMA International Trading (PIT)
across all of PUMA’s sales subsidiaries and
third party suppliers to centrally manage all
global order and invoice flows. One of the
prerequisites was the implementation of an
improved ERP-system supporting these
standardized processes with our sourcing
partners.

Design, Development and Planning:
To increase our efficiency in the product
creation process, we built what we call
“toolboxes”: Toolbox capabilities drive
transparency, efficiency and speed in
10 | PUMA TRAINING

KILL
THE NOISE

FIX
THE BASICS

INTELLIGENCE

BUILD
SMART SOLUTIONS

2016
2015

2014

IT Foundation:

Looking Ahead…

In 2015, we upgraded our IT landscape to
lay the foundation for further global standardization and enhancements in the
coming years. One of the most visible
impacts in 2015 was the global implemen-

The year 2016 is highlighted by major sport
events and a pipeline full of new, commercial PUMA products. We will further capitalize on the structural improvements,

which lay the foundation for a lean and
efficient company in the future. Looking
ahead, both expanding the scope of our
International Trading Organization and
building enhanced capabilities and tools
across product development, planning and
reporting are the main priorities – in line
with our overall strategy of being “Forever
Faster”.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

BRAND
Brand Strategy 12
PUMA Women´s Brand Positioning 14

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

BRAND STRATEGY
PUMA is “Forever Faster”.“Forever Faster” is sports
with personality. These statements are the foundation for
everything we do as a brand.
Rihanna’s FENTY Collection debut at New York Fashion Week
proved that we are a fashion-forward sports brand

“Forever Faster” means to be braver, more
confident, more determined, and above all
joyful. What “Forever Faster” really aims to
convey is the way Usain Bolt lives his life. He
could have stuck with his first 100m world
record. But he smashed it in 9.63 seconds.
Then trained, focused, and ran it in 9.58.
Then, being Usain Bolt, he danced his way
through a victory lap. We merge product
innovation with standout athletes in order to
change the game and become the World’s
Fastest Sports Brand.

and use our knowledge and history in sport
to further establish credibility, authenticity,
and an appreciation for the games we play.

benefits, and often highlighting it within a story about one of our top athletes.
Our roster includes the best of the best:

BRAVE: We are unafraid to take risks.
CONFIDENT: Whatever we do, we do with conviction.
DETERMINED: Nothing comes between us and realizing our dreams.
JOYFUL: We live to play the game and we play with heart.

Our Brand Values
The PUMA brand is grounded in four values:
brave, confident, determined, and joyful.
They motivate us to surpass our potential,
12 | PUMA TRAINING

Through “Forever Faster”, we bring consistency to our marketing campaigns, putting
a stronger focus on product and product

Usain Bolt, the World’s Fastest Man, in the
IGNITE Disc; track and field star Jenna
Prandini in PWRSHAPE training apparel;

Victories don’t happen without
serious training. Just ask Usain Bolt
and Sergio Agüero

footballers Olivier Giroud in evoPOWER
and Sergio Agüero in evoSPEED; and
finally, Rihanna, our Women’s Creative
Director and design muse, in her Creeper.

Ready for an Extraordinary
Sports Year
The year 2016 promises fantastic sporting
moments on some of the world’s biggest
stages: Copa América and the EURO 2016
in football, and the Summer Olympics in
Rio de Janeiro. Following this sports
calendar, we will launch innovative products throughout the year, starting with a
women’s training collection in February,
Tricks football boots in April, and our
latest from the IGNITE franchise in July.

Of course, August is when all eyes turn to
Usain Bolt as he aims to seal his place in
sporting history and win three more gold
medals. With innovation at the forefront of
the PUMA brand, we continue our “Forever
Faster” journey and the pursuit of faster.
Our goal? To forever lead the pack, stay
true to our sporting history, and above all,
play with heart like only we can.

∂

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training towards being
a role model for my team. It is
important to be genuine and
honest. #NoMatterWhat.”
Heike Zenkel, Teamhead Content Management
E-Commerce Europe

The next round of Cuban boxing
legends train #NoMatterWhat.

PUMA TRAINING | 13

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA WOMEN’S BRAND POSITIONING:
PUMA IS THE MOST FASHIONFORWARD GLOBAL SPORTS BRAND

Bjørn Gulden, CEO

“Jil Sander, Christy Turlington, Serena
Williams. Just to name some women who have been an integral part of
PUMA´s history. Even today with
Rihanna, we show clearly that PUMA
and women are a natural, authentic fit.
You can see that clearly in our design
signature and the way we manage our
design and PLM teams. The future is
female? For sure not. It’s now. It´s part
of our DNA.”

“Women have the highest expectations
when it comes to style, coolness and
trends. Understanding the female consumers and creating the best products
for them will have a spill-over effect
on our overall business. Women will
make us cross the line!”

“Today, women are more active,
confident and powerful than they
have ever been. They are pushing the
limits through sports and fashion. As
a brand, we promise to offer women
stylish and fashion-forward performance and sportstyle gear to help
them live the PUMA values - brave,
confident, determined, joyful - in
all moments of life. From sports to
street.”

Reinhard Dischner, General Manager Sportstyle

“Our ultimate goal is to empower our consumers
and employees to be the best version of themselves. Through our designs, technology, and
messaging we encourage them to run faster,
train harder, and live bolder in all of life’s moments. In the end, they are powerful, elegant,
and stylish – just like the Cat.”
Nina Graf-Vlachy, Global Director Strategy

Torsten Hochstetter, Global Creative Director

“PUMA women’s business does more
than balancing our portfolio across the
genders. It enriches it and challenges everything we know about product
and how to bring it to life. It drives us
to be better at our jobs and deliver
beyond consumers' and customers' expectations.”
Kevin Tolchard, Global Director
Merchandising and Go-To-Market

14 | PUMA TRAINING

“The future is female is passé – the
present is female! If half of regional directors in EEMEA are female, it
stands to reason that they influence
our brand to be appealing to the female consumer. And so it is – our
consumer appeal is growing, the
more women we hire.”

“The importance that the PUMA brand is placing on speaking to women makes me proud and
happy because I feel strongly that our brand
more than any other has the ability to elevate
the female experience in both sports and fashion
equally. This is exactly what female consumers
are all about today.”

Martyn Bowen, General Manager EMEA

Karin Baust, General Manager
Running and Training

“Athleisure is no longer a trend, it is a lifestyle
that is not going away. Activewear is making its way out of the gym and out to dinner.
Women are seeking versatile, fashion-forward
footwear and apparel that can be worn day to
night in a way that reflects confidence and
comfort in today’s multi-tasking life.”
Suzanne Embleton, Director Sales
Apparel PUMA North America

“The signing of Rihanna in autumn 2014
was the starting point of a new era for
PUMA's strategy to address the women's
activewear market.
Rihanna has already become a small yet
pivotal part of our Women's business, but
she alone will not make us successful in
this business segment. Success will come
from a comprehensive approach to Product, Marketing and Sales, implemented in
the market in a cohesive way.”

“Chinese women, like Chinese, are
willing to conquer the world: but they
want to do it their way, their female
way in being active and healthy, performant and elegant. For that quest,
PUMA is their partner, understanding
their needs and ambition.”
Adam Petrick, Global Director Brand Marketing

15 | PUMA TRAINING

Philippe Boquillon, General Manager
PUMA China

PUMA TRAINING | 15

COMPANY OVERVIEW

PRODUCT
Performance
From IGNITE and evoSPEED SL to Rihanna and Bolt:
We are sports. We are “Forever Faster”:
Teamsport 17
Running and Training 20
Golf 24
Motorsport 26

Sportstyle
Sport is Lifestyle: We fuse sports authenticity
with fashion credibility:
Sportstyle 28
Kids 31
Select 31

Licensing
Complementing and enhancing our Performance
and Sportstyle offering:
Personal Care Products,
Eyewear, Watches
and Safety Shoes 34

PERFORMANCE
In 2015, we made big strides in improving
the innovation, commerciality and attractiveness
of our products, especially in regards to PUMA’s
performance offering. The following sections
provide an overview of the sporting highlights
and most important activities in each of our
performance categories.

TEAMSPORT
“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“It’s the special moments of a game
I train hard for every day, to be able to
score, to be awake and make an impact
in the game, even after 90 minutes
on the pitch #NoMatterWhat.”
Sergio Agüero (27), Striker for Manchester City

Product Innovations: More Speed,
Power and Accuracy
2015 kicked off with PUMA’s launch of
the new evoPOWER 1.2 FG football boot.
Like its predecessor, it is inspired by the
power generated by a barefoot kick. In
addition, we launched the latest iteration
of our eye-catching Duality football boots,
continuing the theme of two distinctly coloured boots in one pair. This was applied to
PUMA’s two football boot families,
evoPOWER and evoSPEED, and
worn by PUMA stars such as Cesc
Fàbregas, Sergio Agüero, Marco
Reus, and Antoine Griezmann.
PUMA TRAINING | 17

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA first became partner of the “Squadra
Azzurra” in 2003. Pictured left to right: Italy
Captain Gianluigi Buffon, PUMA CEO Bjørn Gulden,
President of the FIGC Carlo Tavecchio, FIGC First
Team Coach Antonio Conte and FIGC General
Director Michele Uva

“Gli Azzurri” Continue to Excel
with PUMA as its Partner

∂

For the launch of PUMA’s new evoSPEED 1.3 Dragon,
Manchester City striker Sergio Agüero and Borussia Dortmund
midfielder Marco Reus met up for another unusual football
encounter…

In March, we extended one of PUMA’s longest-standing and most successful partnerships in football: through our new long-term
contract with the Italian Football Federation (FIGC), PUMA increased its marketing rights as well as retained the exclusive Master License to actively manage
the entire global licensing portfolio of
the FIGC. PUMA, who first became
partner of “Gli Azzurri” in 2003, also
continues as the official technical supplier to all associated FIGC teams.

Strong Brand Presence at
Copa América and the FIFA
Women’s World Cup
At the Copa América, PUMA partnered host nation Chile crowned their
stellar performance throughout the
tournament with their first continental trophy. The PUMA team secured
their triumph with a penalty shootout over archrival Argentina and
18 | PUMA TRAINING

its PUMA star Sergio Agüero, who was
amongst the tournament’s top goal scorers
with three goals.
At the FIFA Women’s World Cup, PUMA
star Marta made headlines by becoming the
all-time leading scorer
in Women’s World
Cup history, while
Germany’s
Célia
Šašic finished the
tournament as the
top goal scorer with six
goals. Together with the three participating
PUMA teams Cameroon, Ivory Coast and
Switzerland, more than 50 PUMA players
contributed to a strong on-pitch presence
for PUMA.

evoSPEED SL: PUMA’s Lightest
Match Boot to Date
Both the Copa América and the FIFA Women’s World Cup in Canada served as a
great stage for the introduction of PUMA’s
innovative football boot evoSPEED SL.
The newly revealed boot is PUMA’s lightest

Radamel Falcao
wearing the PUMA
evoSPEED football boot

match boot to date thanks to a super
light and almost translucent textile
upper material. The evoSPEED SL
is worn on pitch by some of the
world’s best players including
Sergio Agüero, Marco Reus, Radamel
Falcao and Marco Verratti.

An Exciting Sports Year Ahead
In line with our mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand in the World, PUMA’s
Teamsport business unit aims to continue regaining credibility in football through
its partnered teams and players such
as Cesc Fàbregas, Sergio Agüero, Marta, and Marco Reus as well as the likes
of Arsenal FC, Borussia Dortmund and
the Italian national team. Both the 2016
UEFA European Championship next year
in France, where PUMA will be represented through Italy, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and Switzerland, as well
as the Copa América Centenario with
PUMA-partnered Uruguay will be major
opportunities for PUMA to showcase its
renewed focus on sports.

Switzerland, Slovakia, Italy as well as Czech Republic and Austria are all outfitted
in PUMA at the European Championships 2016™ in France this summer

∂

Here’s how we presented PUMA’s 2015/16 iconic red
and white Arsenal FC Home Shirt, engineered to maximize
power, energy, and comfort.

PUMA TRAINING | 19

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

RUNNING AND TRAINING

Igniting the World of Running
and Training
In our Running and Training category, 2015
was an important year to make further progress towards becoming the Fastest Sports
Brand in the World. Following the launch
of our running innovation PUMA IGNITE
by the World’s Fastest Man Usain Bolt in
New York City’s Times Square in February 2015, the sell-through of this new footwear technology was a huge success. The
innovative IGNITE foam technology offers
maximized energy return, step-in-comfort,
and durability while strongly representing
PUMA’s “Forever Faster” positioning.

The Start of a Renewed
Focus on Women
Our women’s performance wear is created specifically for the female body
in order to help our female consumers
perform stronger, faster, and longer. In
2015, we started to feature our brand
20 | PUMA TRAINING

Rihanna joined Usain Bolt, Arsenal London and other
athletes for our “Forever Faster” campaign in 2015

ambassador and Creative Director Rihanna prominently through an in-store marketing campaign focusing on key female
training styles. Rihanna is an ideal brand
ambassador admired by women across
the world, thanks to both her personality and iconic style. Affirming our strong
commitment to the female consumer, our
campaign started with the IGNITE XT – a
lightweight trainer with a responsive footbed technology that provides the perfect
underline to every workout: breathability, resilience, and support. Later in 2015,

Rihanna featured our IGNITE XT training
shoe and other commercial products in
a television commercial as well as online
and other offline media as part of our second major “Forever Faster” brand campaign with a dedicated focus on Training.
With our PWRSHAPE apparel line
– designed specifically for the female
athlete – we offered superior stretch fabric and a next-to-skin fit for for optimal
support, compression, and shaping, while
providing a full range of motion.

∂

What does Bolt do now that he’s
the World’s Fastest Man? He trains for
faster. Stay tuned.

Maintaining the Optimum
Temperature: PWRCOOL and
PWRWARM
Throughout the season, we continued to
develop our IGNITE franchise with the
launch of IGNITE PWRCOOL. PWRCOOL
is PUMA’s innovative cooling technology designed to keep the body at an optimal temperature, that is incorporated into
a complete collection of thermo-regulated
apparel and footwear designed with CoolCELL.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to become the
greatest. That’s what I work
towards. To be remembered,
to have a place in history.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Usain Bolt (29), World’s Fastest Man

PUMA TRAINING | 21

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Jamie Granger, Rihanna’s personal trainer, is one of the
faces of our Women’s Training collection

PUMA’s long history of working
with Jamaican athletes such
as the Fastest Man in the
World, Usain Bolt, and
Olympic
medalist
Hansle Parchment,
provided the perfect conditions to test
PWRCOOL as part of the
development process. In addition, we
designed the IGNITE PWRWARM packed
with cold-friendly technology accompanied
by a thermo-regulating apparel collection to
keep the feet and body at an optimum temperature in the chilliest of conditions in the
coldest of climates.

Jamaica Continues to be the
Leading Powerhouse in Running
During the 2015 IAAF World Championships in Beijing, we benefitted from excellent athlete and team performances with
18 podium positions for PUMA-sponsored
athletes and teams. The World’s Fastest
Man Usain Bolt once again proved his sta22 | PUMA TRAINING

∂

Engineered for responsiveness,
the all new IGNITE PWRCOOL
maximizes energy to propel you
forward. Watch here!

tus as the greatest athlete of all time with
triumphs in the 100m and 200m as well
as the 4x100m relay, extending his recordbreaking personal haul of IAAF World
Championships gold medals to 11. The
stellar performances of the Jamaican
Team, which finished second in the medals
table after Kenya, as well as the performances of the other PUMA teams including the Bahamas, Cuba, Grenada, Cayman
Islands, Switzerland, and the Dominican
Republic, secured a strong brand visibility
for PUMA throughout the competition.

Our collections stand out for their clearer design and more innovative technologies for a great workout

Keep on Training! #NoMatterWhat
The great achievements of our athletes in
Beijing’s National Stadium came only shortly after the launch of our second major
“Forever Faster” brand campaign with a
dedicated focus on Training. Asking the
question “What are you training for?” the
campaign was brought to life through the
unique training stories of PUMA’s most elite
ambassadors such as Usain Bolt, Rihanna,
Sergio Agüero, Arsenal Football Club, and
the Cuban national boxing team. Underpinning this campaign was PUMA’s latest inno-

vative footwear offering within the IGNITE
franchise: the IGNITE XT. The training
shoe’s responsive design maximizes energy and movement throughout high intensity
workouts.

Crossing the Line in 2016

folio of world-class athletes like Usain Bolt,
Asafa Powell, Jenna Prandini, Yarisley Silva, Andre de Grasse, Hansle Parchment,
Michelle Jenneke, and Pedro Pichardo as
well as a pipeline full of innovative and commercial products are the basis to further
cement our status as the Fastest Sports
Brand in the World in the seasons to come.

With the World’s Fastest Man and many
other outstanding athletes in the starting
blocks for the upcoming 2016 Olympics in
Rio de Janeiro, we are continuing to reinforce our performance positioning and
are ready to cross the line. Our solid portPUMA TRAINING | 23

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

GOLF
Combining Innovation and Style

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
„I’m training to perform my
best on the course and win
as many titles as possible,
#NoMatterWhat.“
Lexi Thompson (21), one of the
longest hitters on the LPGA Tour

24 | PUMA TRAINING

PUMA Golf specializes in bringing stylish, fashion-forward, performance-ready
golf apparel, footwear and accessories to
the market that help golfers “Look Better.
Feel Better. Play Better.” In 2010, PUMA
acquired COBRA GOLF, a leader in golf
club innovation with a rich history of creating high-quality equipment. Now, COBRA
PUMA GOLF continues to deliver a full package of game-changing, innovative products,
and fashion-forward style that help golfers
of all ages and levels enjoy the game.

Game-Changing Technologies
and Stylish Collections
In 2015, COBRA GOLF introduced the Fly-Z
family of products including the latest in adjustable weight technology with the Fly-Z+
Driver. It features a new FlipZone weight
technology – a moveable weight system

engineered to provide two different flight
paths in one club head that enables maximum distance for any swing and any golfer.
PUMA Golf continues to bring fresh colours
and styles to golfers. An example of this was
the introduction of the TITANTOUR, a premium tour golf shoe that was designed to be
“The Coolest Shoe in Golf” in temperature
management, utilizing revolutionary, spaceinspired Outlast technology along with a
sleek, eye-catching silhouette.

∂

The TITANTOUR Golf Shoe
– The Coolest Shoe in Golf.
Watch the video here!

President’s Cup Team. Lexi Thompson,
who continues to be one of the longest hitting players on the LPGA Tour,
bombed her way to a stunning victory
at the 2015 LPGA KEB-HanaBank Championship.

Top Performances of
our First-Class Athletes
Lead athlete Rickie Fowler
had one of the best years of
his career during the 2015
season, taking home three trophies at THE PLAYERS Championship, the Scottish Open and the
Deutsche Bank Championship, seven
top 10 finishes and playing on the winning

∂

Watch how the FlyZ-Driver delivers the ultimate
blend of maximum distance
and increased forgiveness.

What’s Next?
COBRA PUMA GOLF will continue to bring
key breakthrough technologies to the market in 2016, announcing the return of KING
to the product line with the new KING LTD
Driver. Fueled by research in space, the
KING LTD features a revolutionary SpacePort design that allowed the brand to design
its first ever Zero CG driver. With the TITANTOUR IGNITE Golf Shoe, PUMA Golf is on
trend to continue making a splash in the
footwear category, along with new apparel
technology and fun accessories with a wide
range of options for golfers of all ages and
styles.

Fowler takes home the trophy at the
2015 Deutsche Bank Championship

PUMA TRAINING | 25

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS driver Lewis
Hamilton was on top of the podium after
a thrilling F1 season to become World
Champion for the third time

MOTORSPORT

In DTM, PUMA’s partnered team BMW
Motorsport took the 2015 Manufacturers’
Championship title, the team’s third win
since returning to the series in 2012 and
a brilliant achievement by the team and
drivers.

Continuing our Legacy as the
Fastest Brand in Motorsport
2015 was a “Forever Faster” year for PUMA
Motorsport with a strong presence on the
racing track. In Formula One, MERCEDES
AMG PETRONAS dominated the season
decked out in PUMA’s high performance
race gear. Lewis Hamilton won his third
Formula One Drivers’ World Championship
with his 10 th victory of 2015 at a thrilling
United States Grand Prix, while the team
had already sealed the 2015 Constructors’
Championship. Scuderia Ferrari also had
a very strong season with some superb
driving by Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen and the iconic Rosso Corsa red
regularly graced the podium.

26 | PUMA TRAINING

BMW triumph: 2015 was a successful season for PUMA’s partner
in the DTM series

Underlining our Leading
Position in Motorsport

For more than ten years, PUMA has worked with Scuderia Ferrari to develop innovative, ergonomic designs
inspired by performance like the PUMA FutureCat

As of January 2016, PUMA is the Official
Licensed Partner and Official Supplier of
Team and Racewear to RED BULL RACING,
outfitting the Formula One team with performance racewear, footwear and teamwear. Strengthening PUMA’s long heritage
in Motorsport, which dates back to 1999,
we are excited to build upon this partnership and explore new territory in the world
of Motorsport together with our strong portfolio of excellent Motorsport teams and
drivers.

Great (brand) synergy: PUMA CEO Bjørn Gulden
shaking hands with Christian Horner, Team
Principal of RED BULL RACING

10 th Anniversary of
Partnership Collection
In 2015, PUMA celebrated 10 years of
partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, releasing a series of product collections to mark
this anniversary. A re-release of the iconic
FutureCat and a Scuderia Ferrari special
edition of PUMA’s classic Suede launched
in February, followed by the Ferrari Premium Collection in April, a capsule collection
of 10 special edition products – were all
inspired by the legendary Scuderia Ferrari
race team.

PUMA TRAINING | 27

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

SPORTSTYLE
PUMA’s Sportstyle offering represents our broad range
of sports-inspired lifestyle collections. It provides our
consumers with day-to-day favorite footwear and
apparel to meet their demands of a sporty lifestyle and
serve all needs from basics to premium.

Our premium SELECT collaborations with
unique assorted design houses and street
fashion designers allow us to reach consumers from high-end fashion to niche
streetwear connoisseurs. “Cool stuff that
works” – with this in mind, PUMA’s Sportstyle
offering represents our “Forever Faster”
mantra by bringing trends from the world of
sports to the street.

Elevating our Styles and Pushing
our Women’s Offering
For Autumn/Winter 2015, PUMA elevated
famous styles with subtle, contemporary
flourishes including our IGNITE technology
and urban inspired patterns. We refreshed
our women’s products with looks that are
steeped in sports: All-over print leggings
28 | PUMA TRAINING

and windbreakers complemented clean,
contemporary cut sweats, hoodies and
crews to create a luxurious sports-inspired
wardrobe. Women’s footwear continued
to push the limits. The application of print
on the women’s Aril and R698 elevate the
iconic running shoes to a modern style
statement, whilst the IGNITE Fast Forward,
a performance thoroughbred, explored stylish colours and textures.

Building on a Strong Heritage
and Credibility with Women
With Rihanna as our global brand ambassador for Women’s Training and PUMA
Women’s Creative Director, we continued
to improve our product offering for female
customers. Building on a strong heritage

Rihanna’s first product
introduction as PUMA
Women’s Creative
Director included the
PUMA Creeper shoe
released in September
2015 – which was a
huge success

and credibility with women, we
started to launch the first in
a series of Rihanna-inspired
footwear and apparel styles in
2015. The “Creeper” was the
first sneaker from PUMA by
Rihanna under her FENTY
Label. It remixes the iconic
PUMA Suede with a creeper
sole inspired by the NYC
punk rock scene with highend details and Rihanna’s
signature branding. The
first
limited
edition
black and white colorway of the Creeper
was available only on our
PUMA.com website and a PUMA-hosted pop-up store in New York’s SoHo

Rihanna directly influences
PUMA’s Performance and
Sportstyle women’s collections
with her intuitive, highly
individual style

∂

Here is the PUMA Eskiva, fusing true
sport heritage and high fashion with its
contemporary, low-profile look.

neighborhood. The shoe generated unprecedented social media and PR coverage
for PUMA and sold out within hours.
In November, we introduced the Eskiva
– a lifestyle sneaker for the ladies inspired
by the PUMA Gong, a boxing shoe that
originally released in the ’70s. The Eskiva
champions PUMA’s athletic roots by keeping true to the original silhouette. Fusing
it with modern material updates results in
a stylish sleek finish. Not compromising
in comfort, its low profile is very flattering
while its soft leather upper and easy lacing
system fits like a sock.
PUMA TRAINING | 29

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training towards
reducing the timeline from
sketch to shop floor, and
pushing the boundaries
of design whilst making
it appeal to a wide
customer base.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Benjamin Lamprey, Designer
Sportstyle Apparel Men

30 | PUMA TRAINING

Two legends in one picture: Boris
Becker presents the “Becker OG”, the
iconic footwear of his legendary first
Wimbledon victory in 1985

∂

See our leather-clad PUMA Basket in action, bringing
classic game to street style without missing a beat.

65 Years of
Unmatched OnCourt Glory and
Off-Court Style
Our Spring/Summer 2015
collection saw the return of
classic court silhouettes like
the Becker OG and Match74 – inspired
by one of PUMA’s greatest sports icons,
world-renowned Boris Becker. The re-issues retained the original silhouette but
crossed over from court to street, making
it a versatile and relevant sneaker for street
wear. The launch of the Becker OG was
supported by exclusive event activations in
Melbourne and Wimbledon starring Boris
Becker.

For Autumn/Winter 2015, the Basket returned to the streets in a fresh monotone,
white-on-white execution. In the ‘60s, the
Basket was one of several PUMA warmup shoes to declare a new era on the
basketball court. A brother of the PUMA
Suede, it rapidly moved its way up the style
roster by opting for all-over leather.

PUMA Suede and R698: Reviving
PUMA’s Iconic Styles
Since its birth in 1968, the PUMA Suede
has enjoyed a 47-year run as both a benchmark for footwear design and a cultural artifact from one of the most progressive and
historically significant eras of the twentieth
century. The Suede hit new levels of fame

∂

“Check out the PUMA Suede,
our icon of sports-inspired style
and streetwise swagger.”

during the ‘80s dawn of b-boys and hip hop
beats, taking over New York City blocks.
And to this day, it remains PUMA’s most
epic icon of sport-inspired styles with its
smooth suede and streetwise swagger. In
2015, the PUMA Suede made a comeback
in classic black-white and peacoat colourway as well as a monotone, black-on-black
iteration.

Wear your idol: PUMA fulfills childhood dreams by offering co-branded apparel, accessories and
footwear collections of childhood heroes like Superman or Tom & Jerry

For Autum/Winter 2015, PUMA celebrated the Trinomic R698 by setting it
against a new perspective – through
the lens of the photographers and creators of the new digital sneaker culture.
A range of brilliant contemporary iterations
of the brand’s iconic archive runner was
released with styles that tailor to today’s
new breed of visual curators. The new
range featured everything from neoprene
and technical fabrics to street-ready
print and material applications on top
of the model’s distinctive technology
filled sole.

The Right Outfit for Every
Challenge in a Kid’s Life

Inspired by the Disc Blaze, the Trinomic R698 serves
as further development of the Trinomic technology,
brought to light in the Early ‘90s

Furthermore, PUMA signed a licensing
agreement with the nonprofit educational

For our young consumers, PUMA Kids
offers the right choice for every activity.
Having partnered with Warner Bros. Consumer Products, PUMA created a range
of PUMA shoes, apparel and accessories
for kids that sport Tom & Jerry and Superman. The Spring/Summer 2015 collection
spanned infant to teens and included trainers, t-shirts, shorts, sweat jackets, head
wear, swimwear and bags that all combined fun and entertainment with lifestyle
and sports functionality.

“The truth always
comes from the street” –
The PUMA x ALIFE collection has become
a synonym for a fresh, diverse lifestyle that
goes far beyond footwear

organisation Sesame Workshop. The first
PUMA Sesame Street co-branded collection was launched in January 2016, features
popular characters such as Elmo and the
Cookie Monster and spans all age groups
starting with toddlers.

PUMA x ALIFE: Mixing Sports with
New York’s Street Culture
In February, PUMA rekindled its partnership
with New York based lifestyle brand ALIFE
through the release of their highly anticipated collaborative collection for Spring/Summer
2015. The collection seamlessly pulls together
PUMA TRAINING | 31

Infusing classic elements
into youthful, contemporary
style, designer Chris Stamp
puts a sophisticated spin on
streetwear

‘80s “B-Boy” culture and ‘90s “Alternastyle” served
as an inspiration for PUMA x VASHTIE

Our collection by NYC girl Vashtie proves what’s possible
when genuine creative vision meets history

ALIFE’s diverse creativity while staying true to
PUMA’s heritage. Through apparel, footwear
and accessories the collection tells the story
of downtown New York, which is an integral
part of PUMA’s rich streetwear history.

PUMA x VASHTIE: Styles Inspired
by Urban Subways and Glamorous
Parties
In March, PUMA launched its collaboration
with Vashtie Kola, New York’s modern wonder woman, who has cultivated the downtown NYC scene for the last decade and
works as a DJ, movie director, fashion model, and designer. For her exclusive PUMA
collection, Vashtie Kola worked closely with
PUMA’s designers and looked to the early
32 | PUMA TRAINING

PUMA x SWASH enhances familiar sport styles with
fanciful hand-drawn and painted artwork

break dancers stealing the scene in NYC.
Vashtie’s second collection for Autumn/
Winter 2015 was an evolution of her previous line, drawing particularly on street and
soccer wear focused on PUMA’s two hero
silhouettes, R698 and the States Mid.

PUMA x Stampd:
Embracing Modern Youth Culture
In July 2015, we launched our collaboration with luxe street wear brand Stampd.
Merging PUMA’s sporting heritage with
Stampd’s knowledge of modern youth culture, we paved the way for the future of

street fashion. Chris Stamp, a west coast
‘Avant Street’ influencer, who received a
GQ award in 2015 for Best New Menswear Designer in America, created a luxury performance athletic line that appeals
directly to the modern high-street trend of
today.

PUMA x SWASH London: Blending
Handcrafted Designs with Classic
PUMA Styles
In September, PUMA released its collaborative collection with the East London
based print and fashion house SWASH

Michael Cherman launched
ICNY to create products
that are both functional and
fashionable – the same goal
PUMA is committed to

A shared philosophy: Every collection of Parisian label Brooklyn We Go Hard is made
to be worn by a passionate and open-minded generation
Almost invisible! Taking sports to new heights,
BAPE® integrates its signature camouflage motif
and bold graphic style into classic PUMA products

PUMA x BAPE: Fusing High Street
Style and Sports
London. Our PUMA x SWASH footwear
collection demonstrated the playful and
artistic theme of this collaboration, taking classic designs and filling them with a
newfound life. The Blaze of Glory, known
for its athletic construction, was given
the trademark SWASH treatment. Furthermore, the XT2+ Trinomic underwent
a similar reinvention, taking on bold and
intricate patterns true to SWASH London’s design ethos.

PUMA x ICNY: Functionality
Meets Fashion
October 2015 saw the release of our
collaborative collection with alternative
sportswear pioneer ICNY. Capitalizing on
the expertise of ICNY’s reflective technology and PUMA’s rich sporting history, our
debut designs by ICNY were purposeful
yet packed with style to make trendsetters
go wild.

In November 2015, we announced our
partnership with Japanese street label,
BAPE also known as A Bathing Ape. The
Autumn/Winter 2015 PUMA x BAPE collection features a fusion of high street
style and sports by integrating BAPE’s
iconic camouflage print and graphics into
PUMA’s sports performance apparel and
footwear. The range extends to accessories and includes bags, football socks and
headbands.
PUMA TRAINING | 33

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

LICENSING
PUMA has a clear vision and strategy for the PUMA partner
license portfolio, which includes a specific mix of authentic
and contemporary products that complement and enhance
the PUMA Performance and Sportstyle product ranges.

34 | PUMA TRAINING

Enhancing and Complementing
PUMA’s Performance and Sportstyle Product Ranges

Personal Care:
The Best Performance at
Every Level

For a number of product categories, such
as eyewear, watches and personal care
products, PUMA grants specialist and market-leading third-party companies the right
to design, develop, manufacture and
distribute those products bearing
the PUMA trademarks and logos in
line with PUMA’s brand positioning
as the Fastest Sports Brand in the
world. PUMA’s licensing strategy
focuses on brand enhancement
and product extensions, with current licensed partners in four key
categories to support this strategy: personal care products, eyewear (optical and sunglasses),
watches and related accessories and safety shoes.

In 2015, PUMA signed an extensive and
long-term agreement with L’Oréal as its new
partner for personal care products. Since the
start of this partnership, the dedicated team
at L’Oréal in Paris has been working on a
new and exciting range. L’Oréal has been
a global phenomenon and market-leading
company for beauty and personal care
products for over 105 years and has product
distribution and brand penetration in luxury
goods, mass market, department stores,
pharmacies and drugstores, hair styling salons, travel retail and branded retail
channels.

Representing the ultimate style of the legendary PUMA Suede sneaker: the PUMA Suede Watch

Eyewear: Performance Through
Continuous Innovation
In July 2015, PUMA announced Kering Eyewear as its new partner for PUMA eyewear.
Following the announcement of the partnership, Kering Eyewear has been working to
develop and design PUMA optical frames

and sunglasses, segmented in three main
categories: Performance, Active and Sportstyle. Each product segment is characterized by style, form and function and combines lens technology and colour, making
the eyewear distinctive, stylish and functional. PUMA Sportstyle eyewear is complemented by ranges including eyewear
specifically designed for running, cycling
and golf to reflect PUMA’s brand DNA and
heritage in sport and performance.

Watches: Captivating Time,
Sport and Style

standing partner MYWA, saw another
product milestone in 2015 with the launch
of a watch based on one of PUMA’s most
iconic styles: the PUMA Suede Watch.
With a limited edition of 1968 watches sold
in a special case construction with ribbed
sides and a modern and sleek dial with the
PUMA Suede logo, it represents the ultimate style of the legendary PUMA Suede
sneaker. 2015 also saw the introduction of
another fantastic watch: the new Ultrasize
Bold 50 Chrono. Featuring an architectural
build of 50mm and a new 3D cut-out dial, it
is designed for the stylish and active consumer.

Safety Shoes: Style Meets Safety
and Performance
Since 2002, ISM, an established German
manufacturer and distributor of safety shoes
and workplace functional apparel, has been
PUMA’s partner for PUMA SAFETY shoes.
2015 saw the introduction of the new PUMA
SAFETY TECHNICS LINE, which was
specifically designed for industrial customers. ISM also developed the new SAFETY
KNIT™ inspired by the PUMA evoKNIT,
which has a fully knitted upper for a socklike fit and will be introduced into the market
in 2016.

The PUMA TIME product ranges designed,
developed and distributed by PUMA’s longPUMA TRAINING | 35

COMPANY OVERVIEW

DISTRIBUTION
Distribution Strategy 37

36 | PUMA TRAINING

DISTRIBUTION
STRATEGY
In order to improve the quality of our sales and distribution,
we established further joint product and marketing
programs with key retailers and rolled out our new
“Forever Faster” store design.
Brand Mix
The PUMA Group owns the brands PUMA
and COBRA GOLF as well as the affiliate
company Dobotex, which manufactures
and markets licensed socks and body wear.
As the PUMA brand accounts for the vast
majority of the group’s net sales and constitutes the core of the PUMA Group, the outlined distribution strategy focuses predominantly on the PUMA brand.

Regional Mix
PUMA is structured into five regions: Europe,
EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East
and Africa), North America, Latin America
and APAC. Due to the particularly heterogeneous nature of our Asian markets, we
dissolved the regional reporting layer in
APAC in 2015 and gave the respective

areas direct access to our global organization. Each region and area is led by a General Manager, who has full profit and loss
responsibility for all countries within the
respective region or area. In terms of the
regional sales priorities, PUMA will continue to leverage its strengths in key growth
markets in EEMEA, Asia and Latin America like India, China and Mexico respectively
to ensure stable sales growth for the company. The focus in Europe is to enhance
the service level to our wholesale partners
as well as to further simplify the organizational structure. With this objective in mind,
the two regions Europe and EEMEA were
set under joint management in 2015. The
strategic priority for North America is to build
on the positive development in 2015, continue the repositioning of PUMA as a performance brand and increase the presence in
quality wholesale distribution channels.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to make
the most of my capabilities
and be the best possible
version of myself.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Benjamin Böhm,
Teamhead Retail Accounting

PUMA TRAINING | 37

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA’s new “Forever Faster” store concept at display in
our Berlin store

Our Milan store features PUMA’s Head to Head campaign for evoPOWER

Channel Mix

quality. In Retail, PUMA has introduced
a completely new store design in 2015.
The new design has been rolled out to 20
owned and operated stores worldwide,
including Hong Kong, Istanbul, Veracruz
and our headquarters in Herzogenaurach.
The new and refurbished stores allow us
to better tell our product stories, reveal the
technologies behind them and strengthen
PUMA’s positioning as a sports brand.
PUMA will continue to open new stores
in strategic growth cities and focus on
driving traffic into and improving the
sales productivity of its existing owned
and operated stores. The growth of
eCommerce has been and will be further
supported by the completion of the rollout
of the unified website PUMA.com as well

PUMA distributes its products via
three different distribution channels:
wholesale, PUMA’s owned and operated
retail and eCommerce stores. Wholesale
accounted for 79% of net sales in 2015
and remains the biggest sales channel
for the PUMA Group. With regard to
the channels, PUMA has the highest
growth rate expectations for eCommerce.
PUMA’s focus in the wholesale business
is to continue to build joint product and
marketing programs together with key
accounts. These measures shall increase
the business share of the most important
accounts of PUMA’s total wholesale net
sales and thereby increase the net sales
38 | PUMA TRAINING

as further enhancements for the
consumer experience.

Product Sales Mix
PUMA sells and markets footwear,
apparel and accessories in categories
such as Football, Running and Training,
Golf, Motorsport and Sportstyle. With a
heritage of designing shoes for more than
65 years, Footwear is and remains the
foundation of PUMA’s business and its
key strategic priority, having generated
45% of net sales in 2015. On our mission
to become “The Fastest Sports Brand
in the World”, we will leverage our clear
positioning in sports to sell performance
and sports-inspired lifestyle products.

Improvement of Our
Distribution Quality
We are convinced that strong relationships
with our main retail partners are a key to
ensure the commercial success of our
products. Therefore, we launched additional successful joint product and marketing programs with multiple retailers to
showcase our brand in the right retail environment and drive sell-through with our

Rihanna’s first Training collection has arrived in stores

partners. Together with our partner Foot
Locker we continued the rollout of our jointly developed retail concept “PUMA Lab” in
the US market and opened a first location
in Europe. Additionally, in North America PUMA has improved its presence with
shop-in-shops, special wall units and
permanent in-store communication at major
sports accounts such as Finish Line and
Champs. Several customer-specific marketing
campaigns such as the evoCHALLENGE
campaign with INTERSPORT have further
solidified PUMA’s partnerships with key
retailers. In 2016, we will continue to foster
strong retail partnerships and launch
further product and marketing programs
with our most important key accounts in
every region.

PUMA products for sale in PUMA Lab at Footlocker in Milan

“By the end of 2014, PUMA
has become the largest
brand in India – not just
in sports, but across all global
brands in the space of footwear, apparel and
accessories. Our focus on retail and specifically
running stores set our brand rolling in the market
and has helped to integrate a strong culture of sellthrough orientation.”
Abhishek Ganguly, General Manager PUMA India

PUMA TRAINING | 39

COMPANY OVERVIEW

SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability Strategy 41
Sustainability Targets 47
New Targets “10FOR20” 52
Social Sustainability 53
Health and Safety 56
Environmental Sustainability 58
Stakeholder and Industry Collaboration 62
Anti-Corruption Efforts 63

SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
1

With our mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand
in the world, we have the opportunity and the responsibility
to ensure that our products are manufactured in
decent workplace conditions where human rights
are respected.

PUMA’s Sustainability Strategy is based
on more than 20 years of Code of Conduct
monitoring experience at our manufacturing partners as well as regular stakeholder
communication, industry collaboration and
expert feedback – both on a corporate and
increasingly on a regional level.
Our latest full scale Materiality Analysis to
identify our most relevant issues was conducted in 2013. The results are still valid and
displayed in the graph F.1 below. 2015 was
a year for us to focus on the u UN Guiding
Principles for Human Rights and Business.
Therefore, we assigned the expert organization Shift to perform a human rights gap
analysis for our global operations including

our supply chain. The validity of our Materiality Analysis was also discussed and
re-confirmed during our Annual Stakeholder Meeting Talks at Banz.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to be more efficient and faster
in creating transparent supply chains,
enhancing industry collaboration and
finding sustainable solutions.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Kai-Ingela Gerasch,
Engineer Corporate Sustainability

On the environmental side, we learned
from the 2013 and 2014 results of the Environmental Profit and Loss account (E P&L),
carried out by PUMA’s majority shareholder
Kering, where we have to place the focus
of our efforts to improve our global environmental footprint.
Looking back at PUMA’s
sustainability targets from 2010
to 2015, we have
1

41 | PUMA TRAINING

G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21

PUMA TRAINING | 41

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

certainly achieved progress in some areas,
whilst realizing that the road to a sustainable development is long. We have merely
walked the first steps on this journey.

ahead of us until 2020 (“10FOR20”), which
are comprised of a broad range of topics
including human rights, corporate governance and health and safety matters.

In order to accelerate our pace in line with
our company slogan “Forever Faster,” we
defined ten target areas for the period

We assigned relevant Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) to each of the identified
target areas in order to go beyond count-

Materiality Analysis2

F.1

A shoe factory in Cambodia that participated in our supplier efficiency program SAVE

Control chemical use
and discharge

Strengthen brand
positioning

Improve water use and
management

Fight against corruption

Improve energy efficiency
and CO2 emissions

Address supply chain
transparency and performance

Improve product design
and development

Improve workers’ health
and safety

PUMA needs to

Improve product quality

Work towards paying a
living wage

Not allow child and forced
labor in the supply chain

Environment
2

3

G4-23, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21

42 | PUMA TRAINING

Focus on responsible
sourcing of raw materials

Corporate

Supply Chain

Product

ing audits and failures, instead focusing
on tracking and managing performance
improvements.

Governance Structure

The year 2015 also saw some significant
changes in PUMA’s sustainability organization, namely a reorganization of the sustainability department from social and environmental teams into a supply chain and a
corporate sustainability arm.

Our sustainability department is in constant
exchange with PUMA’s Managing Directors
and top management on sustainability topics through executive reports as well as inperson meetings. In addition, PUMA seeks
frequent feedback from internal as well as
external stakeholders.

With more than 15 years of sustainability
related work, sustainability has become an
important value in our strategy and an integrated part of PUMA’s business. Our sustainability department, which is responsible
for the execution of PUMA’s sustainability strategy, reports to Lars Sørensen,
PUMA’s Chief Operating Officer 3 .

Constant Review of Our
Sustainability Performance

The Board of Management reports to
PUMA’s majority shareholders via the Administrative Board Sustainability Committee.

Administrative Board
Sustainability Committee
The highest governance body at PUMA in

@ Little Shao

our sustainability program, adjust to new
requirements and, if necessary, to adjust
our course. The continuous evaluation
and assessment through external parties
is an important indicator for our strategy
and our actions going forward. During
the year 2015, PUMA was assessed by
a number of organizations including the
following:

French Handball World Champion Luc Abalo wearing a PUMA T-Shirt made of 100%
organic cotton for the COP21 conference in Paris

terms of sustainability is the Sustainability
Committee at SE level. It is responsible for
the supervision and setting-up of PUMA’s
sustainability strategy. The Sustainability
Committee convened once in 2015.
Current members of the Sustainability Committee are:
François-Henri Pinault
Jean-François Palus
Martin Köppel

Reporting According to GRI G4
Since our sustainability report “Perspective”
in 2003, PUMA has reported about its sustainability program according to the guidance of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
which developed detailed and widely recog-

Carbon Disclosure Project
Disclosure Score 98%, Performance Category C

Rank a Brand
Industry Leader Sustainability
Sustainable Apparel Coalition
Highest number of connections on SAC Higg
Index for Europe
Verbraucher Initiative e.V.
Silver Rating on Sustainability Communication to Consumers

Critical Issues

Rankings and Ratings 4

Institute for Public & Environmental
Affairs (IPE China)
Ranked 17th place out of 100 global companies in terms of environmental performance

2015 saw a number of critical incidents
involving PUMA’s external suppliers that
required immediate action on our behalf.
An example of this was a waste water compliance issue identified at a PUMA-nominated leather supplier in Taiwan. As part
of a government-driven investigation by
the regulatory authority in Taiwan, a tannery and PUMA-accredited leather supplier in Taiwan admitted breaching the local
waste water regulations. Consequently, the
tannery was temporarily suspended from
the Leather Working Group and lost the
PUMA-approved supplier status. We are
following up on the situation with the help
of the Leather Working Group to ensure
these circumstances are promptly rectified.
Future orders at this supplier depend on an
effective remediation.

For PUMA, it is crucial to frequently
engage with our stakeholders to reflect on

Oekom Research
Prime Status continued

We were also challenged by a labor rights
NGO when a Vietnamese factory suspend-

nized guidelines on sustainability reporting.
This report has been developed in accordance to the GRI G4 guidelines using the
“Core” option. This option enables us to report
on the impacts related to our economic, environmental and social and governance performance. It includes topics that are material to
PUMA’s business and our key stakeholders
and that constitute our sustainability targets.
These targets have been systematically
developed in accordance with the feedback
from all of PUMA’s stakeholders as described
in the following section.

Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
Membership ceased after eight years of
continuous membership due to low market
capitalization of PUMA (not related to sustainability performance)
FTSE4Good
Member status confirmed for the tenth consecutive year
IFC Vendor Finance Program
PUMA SAFE compliance program accepted
by the IFC as entry criteria

4

G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

PUMA TRAINING | 43

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

u German Partnership for Sustainable
Textiles Meetings
u European UN Global Compact Meeting
u bluesign® Annual Conference
u Textile Exchange Global Conference

ed a larger number of workers after production came to a halt following a factory fire.
We sent out local compliance experts to
conduct interviews with some of the workers to ensure that all suspended workers
received severance pay in line with Vietnamese regulations.

On a regional level, our compliance and sustainability experts participated in multi-brand
forums and meetings in China, Vietnam,
Turkey and El Salvador.

Stakeholder Dialogue 5
PUMA’s sustainability strategy is based on
continuous feedback from its stakeholders
from all over the world including customers
and consumers, direct and indirect employees, suppliers, regulators, nongovernmental
organizations, international agencies, foundations, academics, and many others.

Talks at Banz 2015
Having evolved from a small discussion
“round-table” format to an innovative and
forward-thinking debate, PUMA invited a
group of external and internal stakeholders to the 12th Talks at Banz in November
2015 around the subject “Mainstreaming
Sustainability.” More than 40 national and
international stakeholders and sustainability experts as well as PUMA’s CEO Bjørn
Gulden and COO Lars Sørensen attended.
Discussion topics centered on, amongst
others, the Climate Change debate that
took place in the lead-up to the UN Climate Conference in Paris, as well as the
UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights
and Business.
5

G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

44 | PUMA TRAINING

Human Rights
PUMA invited a group of external and internal stakeholders to the 12th innovative and forward-thinking debate
Talks at Banz

A list of participating stakeholders can be
found u here.
The key results of this stakeholder meeting, which provided us with valuable and
constructive feedback on our sustainability
strategy, are listed below:
u PUMA needs to expand its sustainability
efforts deeper into the supply chain;
u An ambitious cotton strategy should be
implemented;
u PUMA will develop a “science-based”
CO2 target to support the limitation of
climate change to a maximum of two
degrees.
In addition to the Talks at Banz, PUMA’s
sustainability team organized eight Round
Tables for 273 factories in all major sourcing

regions around the globe in order to engage
with our regional stakeholders. Besides
PUMA Tier 1 and Material Suppliers, several Round Tables also had NGOs and/or
external experts participating to ensure the
inclusion of external insights.
PUMA participated in a record number of
international meetings and conferences on
sustainability to exchange learnings with
peers and catalyze collaborations. Some
examples are listed below:
u
u
u
u
u
u
u

SAC European and Global Meetings
ZDHC Board Meeting and Global Meeting
AFIRM Global Meetings
FLA Board Meeting
COP21: Train to Paris
IPE Annual Conference
WWF Meeting on Carbon Accounting

The UN Guiding Principles on Business and
human rights (UNGPs) are the internationally accepted framework defining the respective duties and responsibilities for states and
companies to protect, respect and remedy
human rights impacts. For over two decades, PUMA has been working to ensure the
respect of human rights not only internally,
but also along its supply chain. In 2015, we
decided to expand our approach and align
with the UNGPs.
We asked Shift, one of the most renowned
global expert organizations on the UNGPs,
to conduct a high-level gap analysis of
our policies and processes for managing
human rights risks in our global operations
against the expectations of the UNGPs and
make recommendations on how to further
implement the UNGPs. A summary report
of this analysis can be found u here.

F.2

Supplier Roundtables 6

CHINA
113 Factories
199 Participants
Main Topics:
1. New SAFE Audit Tool 2015
2. Legal Updates Coverage
3. Audit Performance & Workers Grievance Review
4. Best Practice Sharing
5. PUMA RSL Database Training

VIETNAM
42 Factories
67 Participants
Main Topics:
1. Global Structure & Direction
2. New SAFE Audit Tool 2015
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. Best Practice Sharing
5. SAVE Project

CAMBODIA
ARGENTINA
18 Factories
20 Participants
Main Topics:
1. New SAFE Audit Tool 2015
2. Stakeholder Engagement/Brand Collaboration
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. Workers’ Complaints Channel

TURKEY

14 Factories
25 Participants
Main Topics:
1. Global Structure & Direction
2. New SAFE Audit Tool 2015
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. Best Practice Sharing
5. SAVE Project

INDIA
26 Factories
54 Participants
Main Topics:
1. Sustainability Update
2. MRSL and Chemical Mgmt. Update
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. Bangladesh ACCORD & Fire Safety
5. SAVE Project

25 Factories
52 Participants
Main Topics:
1. PUMA.Safe and Sustainability Global Structure
2. Vulnerable Workers in the Supply Chain
3. Regional Updates on the Audit Performance
4. PUMA RSL Database Training

BANGLADESH

INDONESIA

10 Factories
39 Participants
Main Topics:
1. Bangladesh ACCORD Building Safety
2. Environmental Issues and Legal Requirement
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. SAVE Project

25 Factories
35 Participants
Main Topics:
1. Global Structure & Direction
2. New SAFE Audit Tool 2015
3. PUMA RSL Database Training
4. Best Practice Sharing
6

G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

PUMA TRAINING | 45

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Exchange between PUMA employees and
suppliers at a roundtable meeting in Turkey

“We have the chance to make
sustainability free of competition in
order to create amazing tools together,
which help us to measure social and
environmental performance, even on the
production level. Transparency is just a matter of time.
The more we do this voluntarily and see the benefits, the better it will
be for everybody.”

The key findings, which have been incorporated into PUMA’s overall sustainability strategy, were:
1) Expand PUMA’s social/labor compliance
program beyond direct suppliers and ensure that due diligence, grievance mechanisms and remediation processes cover
the complete supply chain;
2) Conduct a risk assessment including the
lowest tiers (such as raw material producers of cotton or leather) to identify
potential human rights violations, for
example child labor in cotton production
in India or bonded labor in cattle ranching in Brazil;
3) Focus efforts on the most severe risks to
people, including screening for higherrisk country contexts;

Baptiste Carriere-Pradal, VP Europe, Sustainable Apparel Coalition

the international standards, for example
by ensuring alternative mechanisms to
exercise the right to freedom of association in China and Vietnam.

Group for 2013 and 2014. We analyzed
both the Group E P&L as well as PUMA’s
individual E P&L performance to define our
future sustainability strategy.

leather in fabric mills, dye-houses and tanneries offers the opportunity to work on resource efficiency and waste water cleaning
technology.

We will follow up on those recommendations
as part of our new “10FOR20” targets and
sustainability strategy, which covers human
rights in a dedicated target section 7.

Looking at all three E P&L versions, it
becomes obvious that the major environmental impact is centered on two main patterns:

While setting our new target areas (see
section “New Targets 10FOR20”), we
therefore focused on a more sustainable
raw material usage as well as reducing our
climate impact across the full product lifecycle.

4) Involve local stakeholders, including our
own employees, in high-risk countries
like Bangladesh, China or India in the
due diligence process;

Environmental Profit and
Loss Account

5) Communicate possible salient human
rights issues;

After PUMA issued its first E P&L in 2011,
we shifted the E P&L project to group
level of our French majority shareholder
Kering.

2) Land use change, greenhouse gas emissions and related issues during raw
material production stage.

Since then, Kering has published two versions of the E P&L for the whole u Kering

In addition, the temperature and chemical
intensive wet processing of fabrics and

6) Where local law conflicts with human
rights (including core labor rights), review how we seek to meet the spirit of
7

G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

46 | PUMA TRAINING

1) Emissions of energy-related greenhouse
gases along all tiers of the supply chain
(and even beyond, i.e. during consumer
usage phase for apparel).

For more information on Kering’s E P&L,
please visit the link below:
u

http://www.kering.com/en/sustainability/epl.

SUSTAINABILITY
TARGETS

Social Target
Factory audits remain the main enforcement
tool of compliance to PUMA’s Code of Conduct and provide us with an instant picture
of the level of compliance of the factory. As
part of our so-called Sustainability Scorecard
2015, we aimed for 90% of PUMA’s suppliers
to receive an audit rating of A or B+ by 2015.
PUMA continues to use the A, B+, B-, C and
D grading criteria to rate factory performance
against our Code of Conduct. For more information regarding PUMA’s auditing process,
please click u here.
While viewing the rating performance over the
years, it needs to be considered that in 2014
the audit rating methodology was changed
significantly by expanding the audit questions
from 200 questions to 323 questions. Addi-

tionally, stricter penalties were imposed for
non-compliance with critical issues, thereby
making it more difficult for suppliers to achieve
an A or B+ rating. Therefore, the target was

T.1

adjusted in 2014 from 90% A and B+ compliance according to the old rating methodology
to a 70% A and B+ rating score according to
the new rating methodology.

Audit Ratings of PUMA Group Sourcing Tier 1 Suppliers
Tier 1 Factories
2014

% of Sourcing
Volumes by
Rating

Tier 1 Factories
2015

% of Sourcing
Volumes by
Rating

A

46

25

50

28

B+

73

49

102

52

B-

20

3

49

18

C

10

5

8

1.47

D

1

0.1

2

0.04

66

17

16

0.1

216

100

227

100

Audit Rating

No Rating*
Total

* Suppliers in low risk countries with limited/low production volumes

The table below shows the audit ratings
from PUMA Group Sourcing Tier 1 suppliers in 2014 and 2015. Taking into account
the changes described above, 152 suppliers
(67%) have achieved an A or B+ rating. If we
consider the production volumes represented by those suppliers, this figure is 80%.
Reflecting on the 2015 target, we can conclude that the original targets of 90% (rating
system) and 70% (new rating system) were
missed in terms of absolute number of suppliers. Considering production volume and the
stricter new rating methodology, the new 2015
target was achieved with 80% of our production volume sourced from A or B+ rated
suppliers.
Going forward, we will break down our performance for our core suppliers beyond audit
PUMA TRAINING | 47

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

“The Parisian Climate Agreement of
December 2015 represents a global
energy transition. In regard to companies, the management of supply
chains is of crucial importance. With
its sustainability strategy, PUMA is
on the right track to anchor climate protection even
deeper and more effectively and align the company consistently on a
2°-economy.”
Sabine Nallinger, CEO, Stiftung 2°

result categories and measure more specific
individual KPIs, for example social security
coverage, overtime hours or payments in relation to the minimum wage. In 2015, we started
reporting these KPIs already for our Chinese
key suppliers.
We will also continue to expand into lower
tiers within the supply chain, thereby shifting
the scope of our social compliance efforts
from a 100% coverage of all Tier 1 suppliers (regardless of their size) towards an 80%
coverage of our sourcing volume including
Tier 1 as well as component and material
suppliers.

Environmental Targets
Our 2015 environmental targets are broken
down into efficiency targets for our own enti48 | PUMA TRAINING

ties (offices, stores and warehouses) and
targets for our key suppliers.

Energy Consumption
and CO2 Emissions
Energy consumption and
CO2 emissions for our own entities are mainly
comprised of
- Electricity consumption within
our buildings
- Consumption of natural gas or district heat
for heating our buildings
- Consumption of fuel for our company cars
This composition gives us the opportunity to create win-win situations by both
improving our environmental performance
and saving money through more energy
efficient buildings, heating systems and
company cars.

The average emission factor of our PUMA
car fleet at the headquarters in Germany,
for example, has decreased in 2015 from
132 gr CO 2 /km to 122 gr CO 2 /km, resulting in financial savings of approximately
€ 30,000 per year for the 227 company
cars in Germany alone.
Related to electricity consumption, we saw
the first opening of a PUMA store in 2015
under our new “Forever Faster” store concept, which exclusively uses highly energy
efficient LED lights. By year-end 2015, 20
PUMA stores globally had executed the
new concept and thus fully converted to
energy efficient lighting. The introduction
of the first LEDs in our stores was accompanied by professional energy efficiency
audits in PUMA stores in France, Germany
and the UK.
Looking at the overall energy figures, we can
see that we could achieve a relative reduction
of 6% energy consumption per employee
from 2010 to 2015. In absolute terms, the
energy consumption increased by 8%.
This translates into a relative CO2 emission
reduction of 20% for Scope 1 (direct emissions) and 13% for Scope 2 (indirect emissions). This was also supported by a significant increase in the purchase of renewable
electricity from 10% in 2011 to 14% in 2015
as well as the energy creation from several
photovoltaic power plants at headquarters

and stores in Herzogenaurach, Germany,
and at the head office in the USA.
For an overview of our performance against
targets, please refer to table T.2 E-KPIs on
the next page.

1. Figures include PUMA owned or operated offices,
warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses and
franchised stores are excluded.
2. Includes paper consumption for office usage in offices,
warehouses and stores, excludes card board and paper
bags consumption.
3. Data includes extrapolations or estimations where no
real data could be provided.
4. Excludes on-site generated and consumed energy as
well as energy produced on site and sold to the grid.
5. Includes own production sites in Argentina. All other
production is outsourced to independent supplier
factories, some warehouse operations are outsourced
to independent logistic providers, franchised stores
are excluded.
6. Store data is derived from exemplary stores in each
country and extrapolated to cover all stores;
methodological changes over the last 3 years
do influence results.
7. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2 accounting,
with reference to the GHG protocol, but only reports
CO2 emissions, not CO2 equivalent emissions.
8. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2
accounting, with reference to the GHG protocol, but only
reports data from business travel, transportation of goods
as well as from production of Tier 1 suppliers under Scope
3 emissions.

E-KPIs 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8

T.2
2015

Deviation in % to

Total

2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Energy consumption (kWh)

81,620,952

2

0

-7

9

8

Electricity consumption from renewable tariff (kWh)

11,360,291

3

29

14

51

–

Water (m³)

104,221

-4

-16

-14

-8

Waste (kg)

5,006,919

16

6

-1

Recycled waste (kg)

2,949,003

8

5

Paper consumption (kg)

241,198

-20

Certified and recycled paper (kg)

134,919

Total /
employee

Deviation in % to
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010

Total/
m²

Deviation in % to
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010

Total/
TO
kEuro

Deviation in % to
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010

7,488

3

-2

-10

4

-6

163

3

-3

-8

3

5

24.1

-11

-12

-10

-3

-14

-11

9.6

-2

-17

-16

-15

-22

0.2

-1

-18

-15

-12

-12

0.03

-16

-26

-17

-19

-29

-20

-22

463.1

18

5

-4

-26

-32

10

19

4

-2

-22

-23

1.48

2

-6

-5

-29

-38

17

35

30

-10

-23

-39

-36

22

-18

-11

-25

-43

-44

0.5

-18

-3

-19

-39

4

0.07

-30

-20

-26

-46

-49

-31

-13

-27

-45

-25

Percentage renewable energy

14

2

29

22

38

–

Percentage recycled waste

59

-7

-1

18

68

67

Percentage certified and recycled paper

56

-14

-4

-5

-10

18

CO2 Data 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8
2015
1. Direct CO2 emissions fossile fuels (t),
(old CO2 emission factor)

2. Direct CO2 emissions car fleet (t),
(old CO2 emission factor)

Total Scope 1, (old CO2 emission factor)
Total Scope 2, Indirect CO2 emissions electricty &
steam (t), (old CO2 emission factor)
Total Scope 1+2, (old CO2 emission factor)

(kg)

(kg)

3,312 (2,813)

4

13

7

36

24

0.3

6

11

4

32

9

6

6

10

6

30

21

1

-9

-1

3

21

-1

3,984 (3,500)

-8

-17

-21

-23

-26

0.3

-6

-18

-23

-26

-35

7

-5

-18

-22

-27

-27

1

-19

-26

-24

-32

-41

7,296 (6,313)

-3

-6

-11

-5

-10

0.6

-1

-7

-13

-8

-20

12.7

0

-8

-11

-9

-11

2

-15

-17

-14

-15

-28

2

-1

-7

16

-1

2.5

4

-3

-9

12

-13

55

5

-4

-8

10

-3

8

-11

-13

-10

3

-21

1

-2

-8

11

-3

3.1

3

-4

-10

8

-15

68

4

-4

-8

6

-5

10

-11

-14

-11

-1

-22

35,591
(27,444)

42,887
(33,757)

1. CO2 emissions from business travel
train transportation(t)

39

-14

-19

-29

-60

-50

0.0

-12

-21

-30

-62

-51

0.1

-12

-20

-31

-61

-56

0.01

-24

-28

-31

-64

-60

1. CO2 emissions from business travel
air transportation (t)

10,152

17

20

15

-8

19

0.9

20

18

12

-10

4

20

20

17

14

-12

17

3

3

5

11

-18

-5

2. CO2 emissions from B2B transport of goods (t)*

57,085

10

30

35

17

29

5.3

12

28

32

13

14

115

13

27

34

11

27

17

-3

15

30

4

3

3. CO2 emissions from production in Tier 1 supply chain

79,902

-6

0

-5

-14

-19

147,178

1

11

9

-4

-2

13.6

3

10

7

-7

-14

297

4

8

8

-9

-4

43

-11

-2

5

-15

-22

190,065 (180,935)

1

8

5

-1

-3

16.8

3

7

3

-4

-14

365

4

6

5

-6

-4

53

-11

-5

2

-12

-22

53,078 (43,948)

4

2

-3

6

1

4.1

6

1

-6

3

-11

89

7

0

-4

1

0

13

-8

-10

-7

-6

-19

Total reported Scope 3
Total, (old CO2 emission factor)
Total without B2B and production (old calculation)

PUMA TRAINING | 49

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

CO2 Emissions from
Transportation of Goods
Most of PUMA’s transportation activities
originate from the main manufacturing markets in Asia, which serve all other markets
globally, and this is why transportation is a
key contributor to the CO2 emissions.
The rise in tons emitted from 51,784 t to
57,828 t by 11.7% is fully in line with the rise
in tonnage transported due to more goods
sold due to PUMA’s new strategic setup.
Emissions per ton transported have remained stable throughout the previous
years, which is due to diligent planning and
implementation of guidelines and programs
to save space and use best available means
of transportation focused on the needs of
the business.
Courier services are reported separately by
PUMA’s main stakeholder Kering, located in
Paris, France. The current indication is that
courier service B2B emissions account for
less than 3% of our overall B2B emissions
globally.
While we clearly missed our 25% reduction
target set from 2010 to 2015, our declared
goal remains to continuously drive our partners and service providers to improve efficiency of transport vehicles and services.
This goes hand in hand with improvements
made to the supply chain.
50 | PUMA TRAINING

T.3

CO2 Comparison* from Transportation of Goods

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Dev. 2015
vs. 2014

Dev. %
(2015 vs.
2014)

Dev. 2015
vs. 2010

Dev. %
(2015 vs.
2010)

6,194

7,330

8,065

8,291

8,637

9,524

887

10.3

3,330

53.8

Railfreight

546

597

448

450

547

643

96

17.5

97

17.8

Seafreight

21,585

24,312

22,276

21,908

25,766

28,664

2,898

11.2

7,079

32.8

Airfreight

15,857

16,569

11,546

13,182

16,834

18,997

2,163

12.8

3,140

19.8

Total (tons)

44,182

48,808

42,335

43,832

51,784

57,828

6,044

11.7

13,646

30.9

Roadfreight

* Excluding courier service

We are fully aware that to effectively limit global climate change to two degrees
or less, much more ambitious targets are
required going forward. Even though PUMA
is only one of many players in the global cli-

T.4

mate debate, we stand ready to contribute
our fair share. Therefore, we have committed to calculating a science-based target for
PUMA together with climate experts from
WWF, the Carbon Disclosure Project and

Stiftung 2° and plan to implement this target
within the next two years.

tCO2 per Ton Transported

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Dev. 2015
vs. 2014

Dev. %
(2015 vs.
2014)

Dev. 2015
vs. 2010

Dev. %
(2015 vs.
2010)

Roadfreight

0.059

0.065

0.060

0.062

0.067

0.067

0.000

0.4

0.008

13.7

Railfreight

0.024

0.025

0.021

0.021

0.026

0.030

0.004

14.0

0.006

23.3

Seafreight

0.285

0.294

0.290

0.288

0.332

0.481

0.150

45.1

0.196

68.9

Airfreight

5.466

5.686

5.802

6.189

6.163

6.031

-0.132

-2.1

0.565

10.3

Total (tons)

0.215

0.217

0.181

0.188

0.224

0.223

0.000

-0,2

0.008

3.9

thus help to reduce the disposal cost for
waste overall.
Between 2010 and 2015, the percentage
of waste going into recycling increased and
now stands at 59% of all waste being recycled, while the overall amount of waste per
full-time employee has decreased significantly by 32%.

This picture exhibits the aerobic process of a typical waste water treatment plant in a dyeing mill
in China that produces fabrics for PUMA products

Water Consumption
Water consumption from our own
entities is mainly for sanitary and
kitchen usage. Therefore, the saving opportunities lie within water-efficient toilets, faucets,
dishwashers, etc. The capturing and usage
of rain water, as is done in our German headquarters, is another way to save grid water
consumption, since drinking water quality is
not always needed for all purposes.
Looking at table T.2, we have achieved
relative and absolute savings of 22% and
11%, and therefore fell short of our 2015
target by only 3%. At an average cost of € 2
per m3, the saving of 12,000 m3 grid water
per year also helped us to realize a financial
saving of approximately € 25,000 per year.

For the next target period, we will no longer
focus on water consumption in our own entities, but rather on water consumption and
treatment in our supply chain, which has by
far more relevance in terms of environmental impact.

Waste Creation
Through the usage of office paper,
packaging materials in our warehouses and packaging of the goods sold in
our stores, we are creating significant volumes of waste.
Fortunately, most of this waste is recyclable. Particularly through the segregation
and recycling of cardboard and paper as
secondary raw material, we can even generate some revenue from our waste and

We have therefore achieved our target of
25% reduction for 2015. Going forward, we
will continue to measure the creation and
recycling of our waste on a global level. For
the future targets up to 2020, we will focus
– similar to the water consumption – on our
manufacturing partners rather than our own
entities, because waste production in the
supply chain is significantly higher than at
PUMA’s own locations.

Paper Consumption
Paper consumption from our own
entities (excluding product packaging) could be reduced significantly over the last
five years. For both the average consumption
per full time employee (-44%) and the total
overall consumption (-36%), we achieved our
25% reduction target.

Extrapolating on the paper savings with the
cost of office paper at € 1 per kg, we estimate
the total savings made at over € 100,000 per
year.
Besides reducing unnecessary consumption,
we have constantly been increasing the percentage of recycled and/or certified paper
within our own entities. Starting from 47% in
2010, we now stand at 56% of certified and/or
recycled paper consumption and will continue
to push increasing this figure further.
Nevertheless, also in the field of paper and
cardboard consumption we will shift our focus
and target from the corporate level more
towards the production level going forward.
As a first and important step, we already
implemented an FSC®-certified new standard shoe box with a recycled paper content
of over 90% for our footwear products. To put
this into perspective, we are using approximately 50 times more recycled and certified
paper through the new box than in all of our
offices, stores and warehouses worldwide.

This in turn helps to save on the cost of
paper and also adds significantly to the waste
reduction, since paper and cardboard is our
largest waste fraction.

PUMA TRAINING | 51

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

NEW TARGETS
“10FOR20”
The year 2015 marked the end of our fiveyear non-financial target period. Therefore,
we have worked together with our stakeholders to set new targets for the next five years.
Acknowledging that we have mainly focused
on environmental targets within our own
sphere of influence for the period from 2010
to 2015, we have now balanced this with adding health and safety, human rights and governance targets for 2020 as well as shifting
our focus deeper into the supply chain.
Taking into account our learnings from the
E P&L, the Human Rights Gap Analysis and
our continuous stakeholder dialogue, we are
also setting a strong focus on sourcing significant volumes of more sustainable raw materials. In order to do so, we are partnering with
expert and industry organizations like bluesign technologies, the Better Cotton Initiative
or the Forest Stewardship Council.
In the year of publication of the new Sustainable Development Goals from the United
Nations and the 21st UN Climate Conference
52 | PUMA TRAINING

F.3

in Paris, we were not only active as a sponsor
of the event and via our partner organizations
like the German CEO initiative “Stiftung 2°”.
We also concluded that in order to contribute
our fair share to a global warming that is lim-

ited to two degrees Celsius, we need to set
our own future CO2 targets in line with this 2
degree scenario.
Please find below the new targets “10FOR20”:

PUMA Corporate Sustainability Targets “10FOR20”

(relates to SDG 3, 5, 8 and 10)

Compliance with Industry
Standards/ ILO Core Conventions
for all key suppliers, including
Tier 2&3

GOVERNANCE

STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT

SOCIAL
COMPLIANCE

(relates to SDG 17)

Stakeholder Dialogue, Public
Reporting (GRI), Consumer
Information

ENVIRONMENTAL P&L

(relates to SDG 8, 16)

(relates to SDG 7, 12)

Continue to report on the
EP&L every two years under the
lead of Kering

Maintain and run a state of the art
Compliance Management System
(incl. Anti-Corruption measures)

WATER

HUMAN RIGHTS

(relates to SDG 6)

(relates to SDG 3, 4, 5, 10)

Embed human rights across
our operations and suppliers.
Help to positively impact the communities where PUMA is present

Industry Good Practice for
consumption and effluent treatment)
is met by 90% of PUMA key suppliers
with wet processing facilities

PUMA
Sustainability
Targets 2020

CLIMATE

HEALTH & SAFETY
(relates to SDG 3)

(relates to SDG 13)

Zero Fatal Accicdents;
injury rate below industry
average

Science-based CO2
reduction target to be developed
(2016) and implemented (2020)

SDG = United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

CHEMICALS
(relates to SDG 3, 6)

Zero Discharge of Hazardous
Chemicals from our Supply Chain
by 2020

MATERIALS
(relates to SDG 12, 15)

More sustainable alternatives
used for our key materials
(cotton, polyester, leather,
cardboard, PU)

SOCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY
Introduced back in 1993, PUMA’s Code of
Conduct (CoC) sets a clear minimum standard for supply chain partners and is displayed in all of PUMA’s directly contracted
partner factories. It also forms an essential
part of our purchasing contracts.
The year 2015 saw the start of a shift in the
context of social sustainability. As a member
of the Fair Labor Association, PUMA has
made a commitment to regularly audit 100%
of its factories on Tier 1 level with regard to
social as well as health and safety and basic
environmental standards – for more than 10
years already. In the past years, we carried
out these audits regardless of order volume,
risk status of the country or processes covered at the Tier 1 supplier.
This has led to a workload of over 300 audits
per year and more than 5,000 audits since
the start of our audit program in 1999. It
also led to a situation where a significant
number of our Tier 1 suppliers have been
audited by PUMA at least five times over the
last ten years, while only a limited number

of their subcontractors, component suppliers or key material suppliers were audited
for social standards at all. The very same
Tier 1 suppliers are also regularly audited
by or on behalf of other brand customers,
while the lower tiers of the supply chain
remain largely without monitoring for social
aspects. At the same time, we increasingly
realize the same audit findings at the same
factories over time, which means that the
problems are not truly addressed despite
multiple audits by multiple brands.
In other words, the auditing system alone
does not deliver what it is supposed to and
a substantial paradigm shift is required
besides detailed follow ups on corrective
actions from audit reports.
Realizing this challenge may not be entirely new for experts in the social compliance
field – and various organizations and companies have tried to address the problem at
its root cause.
Therefore, going forward, we plan to:

“It can be very hard for companies in the apparel sector to
understand where their products and materials are coming from. The challenge for
these companies is to improve
their understanding of the impact on their value
chain. At the end of the day, consistently working on increasing
transparency in the supply chain is actually going to help you to
manage your business – including your impacts on people.”
Julie Schindall, Senior Adviser, Shift
1) Focus our social compliance program
with close follow up on those suppliers
who are responsible for 80% of our business volume. By doing so, we cut out a
larger number of factories with small
order volumes from PUMA or our licensees, where we do not have much
influence to push for improvements.
Those factories will still be monitored via
external assessment reports, ideally
sharing those with other brands. At the
same time, we free our own resources
to work more closely with the factories
that produce the vast majority of our
products.
2) Expand the scope of our social/labor
program beyond Tier 1 to cover also all
key component and material suppliers.
This means ending the separation into
direct contract partners that suffer from

audit fatigue and their suppliers that may
have never experienced a social/labor
audit at all.
3) Focus on the measurement and subsequent management of relevant and
measurable KPIs such as staff turnover
rates, average overtime worked, average
payments compared to minimum wage,
etc.
4) Step up multi-brand collaboration
through organizations like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the Fair Labor
Association and the Better Work Program of the ILO. This includes sharing
of audit results and follow up, joint capacity building projects and eventually even
the replacement of single-brand audits
through an aligned industry approach.

PUMA TRAINING | 53

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Audit Statistics 2015

system as of year-end 2015. The remaining
suppliers received an A grade during 2014
and they will only be re-assessed in 2016. In
an effort to reduce audit fatigue, 21 PUMA
factories have joined the Better Work Program of the International Labor Organization and were therefore not considered in
PUMA’s own audit scope. At the end of the

In total, PUMA carried out 384 audits in 2015
and assessed 332 facilities, meaning some
of those factories have been audited more
than once on the search of the effective implementation of corrective actions. Over 95%
of the active supply base has been assessed
under the u Fair Factories Clearinghouse

Resolution Analysis of 2015

F.4
100%

100%

100% 93.8% 100% 100% 100% 100%

100%

100%

95.5%

100
80
60

T.5

40

Number of Audits 2013-2015

30.0%

25.3%

20

Initial Audits*

Re-audit**

1.3%

2013

2014

2015

2013

2014

2015

272

243

61

42

47

241

America

37

33

10

3

6

27

EMEA

24

33

13

0

5

32

333

309

84

45

58

300

Region
Asia

Total
* new factory

T.6

0

14.7%

10.7%

8.0%

3.3%

0.7%

2.7%

0%

2.0%

0%

1.3%

0%

f
t
l
y
r
s
e
n
e
d
s
S
er
en
fet t
bo
ur
ur
so
tio
us
nta
an es
e
ag
H&
La
ed
ho
Sa men ies eniti me nt . Oth
rm
ab
em
cia
en
c
c
W
e
i
g
d
.
o
t
g
d
&
B
o
r
n
e 14
s
r
1
n
n
d
as
h ge
ce
na
2.
ito Am viro em
rki
As
ta
.B
or
ep
an
alt na
g
n
Ma
rm e
of
.F
ts ent . Wo
en
10
nc
He Ma . Do lfar 3. E ana
c
7
R
a
m
m
.
a
v
4
H
s
e
tr m
1
M
ie
11
do
12 W
al
as
on loy
Gr
er
ee
ar
6.
Fr
3.C emp
en
.H
.
8
G
9
5.
es

fits

Percentage of major categories

Resolved Rate

** existing factories

year, 34 factories were made inactive and
taken off the supplier base because of failure to meet our standards.

Audited Factories End-Year Ratings 2013-2015

Audit Rating

2013

%

Tier 1 Tier 2-3 Total

2014

%

Tier 1 Tier 2-3 Total

2015

%

Tier 1 Tier 2-3 Total

A

40

1

41

11

43

2

45

14

36

1

37

11

B+

157

6

163

45

145

12

157

47

156

16

172

52

B-

103

8

111

30.5

92

6

98

30

75

12

87

26

C

31

0

31

8.5

29

2

31

9

25

2

27

8

D
Total*

18

1

19

5

0

0

0

0

9

0

9

3

349

16

365

100

309

22

331

100

301

31

332

100

* includes all tiers and PUMA Group Sourcing as well as Licensee suppliers

54 | PUMA TRAINING

Resolution of Complaints
PUMA offers several grievance channels to
the workers of our manufacturing partners.
For example, our Code of Conduct is displayed in all Tier 1 suppliers worldwide, and
holds the email addresses and phone numbers of our compliance team, which receives
and processes over 100 worker complaints
each year. Other mechanisms include the

use of the social network “QQ” in China, SMS
messages and the third party complaints
procedure run by the Fair Labor Association,
of which PUMA is a member.
Wages, general health and safety, working hours as well as benefits management
ranked highest amongst workers’ complaints
received in the supply chain. In total, 150
complaints from 51 facilities were received
in 2015. The global resolution rate grew by
10.3% compared to 2014, and reached 98.7%
in 2015. Three regions including EMEA, In-

dia/Bangladesh and Americas have a 100%
resolution rate; followed by China (99.3%)
and Indonesia, Malaysia and South Korea
(50%). All Zero Tolerance and Critical Issues
were resolved in 2015.

16 of our Chinese suppliers (the ones with
the largest production volume for each category). From next year onwards, we plan
to expand our reporting scope to other major sourcing regions.

This year, we are reporting for the first
time the results of our Social KPI survey
amongst our key suppliers. Due to the fact
that the collection and reporting of this
data is new, we only report the KPIs from

Description of Activities
The u Better Work Program of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
is an initiative aiming to end audit fatigue

Resolution Analysis of Recent Three Years

F.5
160

98.7%
140

and promote joint implementation of progress across multiple buyers at individual
factories.
The program is currently active in eight
sourcing countries, of which four are
significant sourcing markets for PUMA,
namely Vietnam, Bangladesh, Cambodia
and Indonesia.
During the year 2015, PUMA had enrolled
21 factories under the ILO Better Work
program, covering some apparel and accessories suppliers in Vietnam and mostly apparel production from Cambodia,
where Better Work membership is mandatory for exporting garment factories.
From 2016 onwards, PUMA will ask all suppliers in Cambodia to join the program, irre-

spective of their product category. We also
aim to expand the Better Work coverage
in the current countries to allow for more
shared audits and remediation efforts in
line with our new compliance strategy.

Vendor Financing Program
Last year, PUMA’s compliance program
SAFE was also formally accepted by the
u IFC Vendor Financing Program. In an effort
to provide an incentive to suppliers with
good compliance and sustainability ratings,
the IFC offers attractive financing conditions
for vendors who have achieved a SAFE A or
B+ rating.

120
77.8%
100

T.7

80
150
60

148

88.4%

135

KPI*

Apparel

Footwear Accessories

105

40

69

61

20
0

Social KPIs of Selected Chinese Suppliers 2015

2013
Complaint No.

2014
Resolved No.

2015

Supplier
Average

Annual Staff Turnover Rate (%)

41

85

62

63

Gross Wage paid** above the Minimum Wage (%)

22

18

3

15

Workers covered by Social Insurance (%)

74

25

69

56

Average Overtime per Week (hours/week)

10

17

14

13

Workplaces where there is one or more
trade union(s) (%)

92

21

80

64

* average figures from 16 Chinese Suppliers
** excluding overtime and bonuses

PUMA TRAINING | 55

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

As building safety concerns within our supply chain are not limited to Bangladesh, we
expanded our activities related to this topic
into China, Vietnam and Cambodia. As of
today, ten suppliers in China, six suppliers in
Cambodia and 18 suppliers in Vietnam have
been assessed as a part of our PUMA building safety initiative. For the year 2016, we
aim to expand the initiative into at least one
additional country.

HEALTH & SAFETY
Building Safety

“With our
partners
like PUMA
our work
is targeted
at reducing
the use of pesticides and their
toxicity in the production of
cotton, making better use of
water, thereby increasing yields,
and improving livelihoods. All
of this serves one fundamental
goal, which is to become
mainstream.”
Alan McClay,
CEO, Better Cotton Initiative

T.8

PUMA places the highest emphasis on protecting the health of our consumers. Therefore, we have been operating a Restricted
Substances List (RSL) and policy for RSL
testing for more than 15 years. This means
that all materials used in PUMA products
need to be tested for RSL compliance prior

Number of Failed
Test Reports

2013 2014 2015 2013

Number of OEKO-TEX® &
bluesign® certifications

% Failure

2014 2015 2013 2014

2015 2013 2014 2015

Accessories

483

361

624

28

27

50

5.8%

7.5%

8.0%

32

43

89

Apparel

272

116

480

7

1

33

2.6%

0.9%

6.9%

192

100

234

1,751

954

1,150

11

5

91

0.6%

0.5%

7.9%

46

5

129

559

238

30

30

58

55

46

137

82

13

7

3,111 1,806 2,336

89

70

Footwear
Licensees & Subs
Others
Total

56 | PUMA TRAINING

Total Number of Test
Reports

5.4% 12.6%
5 28.3% 5.1%
179

2.9%

3.9%

6.1%
7.7%

328

2.9%
3,000
7.7%

2,500

1,500

RSL Statistic 2013-2015

Division

3,500

2,000

Product Safety/ Restricted
Substances

Two years after the Rana Plaza disaster, the
work of the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and
Building Safety has shown first substantial
results. All seven PUMA suppliers in Bangladesh had their buildings assessed for
structural building and fire safety and 650
corrective measures were suggested. In the
meantime, over 300 corrective measures
were implemented, while we follow up on
the remaining actions.

Failure Statistic 2013-2015

F.6

38

15

241

467

3.9%
97.1%

1,000

96.1%

92.3%

500
0
2013
PASS Test Reports

2014

2015
FAIL Test Reports

to production. The only exception is already
certified materials according to OEKO-TEX®
or the bluesign® system, which have proven
to fulfill our requirements on product safety
already during the certification process.
The most recent PUMA RSL can be found
u here.
Please find in Table 8 the statistics on
the results of the PUMA RSL testing from
the last three years. One test report usu-

ally contains several tested substances.
Even if only one of the substances failed
the RSL requirements, it is counted as a
failed test report in the statistics. The 7.7%
of materials that were tested with one or
more RSL failures were not allowed to be
used in the production process. For those
materials, the reason for the failure was
identified, corrected and a re-test was
done to ensure compliance. The data is
based on our new RSL database, which
was established in 2015. RSL tests from
licensees and subsidiaries are no longer

reported separately but included in the
product categories.
The increase in failures from 4% to 8% is
caused by lowering the limit values in our
RSL in 2014 and a more stringent reporting
procedure through our new RSL database.
Figure 7 shows the substance groups that
were most commonly found in failed materials. Failures in solvents, pH-value and
APEOs were the most common ones to be
detected. As described above, failed mate-

Proportional Distribution of Failures 2015 among
Substance Groups in tested materials

F.7

Solvents

rials cannot be used in PUMA products
and suppliers receive support in rectifying
the failures. The analysis on substance
group level as shown in Figure 7 provides
an insight into the performance of our suppliers, enabling us to investigate the root
cause of failures and offering specific support to supply chain partners, e.g. specific
trainings on chemicals.

Declining VOC Consumption in
Footwear Production
Another aspect related to consumer as well

Heavy Metals (Pb, Cd)
Arylamines (Azo Dyes)
Organics
Short-chain Chlorinated Paraffins
pH-Value

Extractable Heavy Metals
Phthalates

PUMA had set a long-term target of 25 grams
of VOC (volatile organic compounds) per pair
in footwear production already back in 2003.
Now, 12 years later, we have finally achieved
this target, but do not want to stop there. The
next interim target is 20 g/pair, with the longterm target of eliminating solvent-based processes and using water-based substitutes
completely wherever technically feasible.

Development of the VOC Consumption per Pair of Shoe from 2003 to 2015

F.8

PFC, N-Nitrosamines,
Flame Retardants, Disperse & other
dyes, Dimethylfumarate (DMFu), Chromium VI, Chloroorganic Carriers

as worker health and safety concerns the
usage of solvents in footwear production.

70

66.7

60

56.2

50

46.8

43.0

42.2

39.8

41.2

40

40.2

37.0

30
20

33.1

30.7

28.7
24.1

Target

10

Formaldehyde
APEOs
Pesticides

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2012

2011

2013

2014

2015

PAHs
Organotin Compounds

Chlorinated Phenols

VOC Consumption per pair of Shoes

Actual VOC Consumption (g / pair of shoe)

Target (25 g / pr)

PUMA TRAINING | 57

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY
Corporate Level

Supplier Level

Our corporate level environmental performance was already covered in the 2015
target review chapter. In addition, PUMA
sponsored the UN Conference on Climate
Change (COP21) in Paris with clothing for
the stewards and stewardesses who assisted visitors to find the conference. French
Handball World Champion Luc Abalo helped
to communicate this small but symbolic step
in support of the climate conference.

The Environmental Profit and Loss Account
(E P&L) from Kering clearly indicates that
the majority of the environmental footprint
is caused in the manufacturing and raw
material stages. Therefore, the environmental program of PUMA does not stop at our
own company, but naturally expands into our
supply chain.

As part of the Commit to Action Campaign
on the Road to Paris, PUMA formally committed to developing a science-based target for climate change within the next two
years. We also publicly committed to continue reporting on our carbon footprint and
climate change program as part of mainstream financial reporting and to a responsible corporate engagement in climate policy.

58 | PUMA TRAINING

For over ten years already, every supplier
compliance audit conducted has covered
core labor standards, occupational health
and safety, and basic environmental aspects.
With the creation of the Zero Discharge of
Hazardous Chemicals Group (ZDHC) in 2011
and the subsequent formulation of a ZDHC
joint environmental audit protocol, PUMA has
gone one step further; in 2015, we made sure
our largest vertically integrated suppliers, as
well as material suppliers have undergone at
least one detailed environmental audit.

“We need brands that ideally
implement a sustainable chemical
management in the supply chain. PUMA can
be one of those examples and contribute
to gradually improve the standards in the
supply chain. There are already committed
manufacturers, who have the technologies and know-how, in
order to reach the next level of a sustainable production.”
Peter Waeber, CEO, bluesign technologies

To avoid duplication of effort and audit fatigue, PUMA joined forces with other brands
in the sporting goods sector, and accepts
environmental audits conducted by other
ZDHC brands as well as the Leather Working Group (LWG) and bluesign®.

With these co-operations in place, PUMA
has taken the lead and conducted environmental audits for twelve key material suppliers globally, including four factories in
mainland China, three in Taiwan, three in
Bangladesh, one in Turkey and one in Gua-

The bluesign® system:
The bluesign® system focus guarantees the application of sustainable ingredients
in a clean process at which end stands a safely manufactured product.
As a result, the textile industry manages the natural resources soundly and responsibly, reduces water and air emissions, improves its waste water treatment
and generally reduces its ecological footprint.
With this holistic approach, the bluesign® system unites all partners of the textile
industry in order to realize an environmentally friendly, sustainable textile production worldwide.
www.bluesign.com

temala. The twelve factories involve different types ranging from knitting mills, dyeing
mills, tanneries, synthetic leather producers,
to zipper suppliers, golf club manufacturers
and vertical apparel suppliers. These factories were either audited by PUMA’s internal
auditors or the global audit firm ITS. From
the perspective of PUMA divisions, there
are five apparel factories, three footwear
factories, three accessory factories, and
one COBRA PUMA GOLF factory covered.

T.9

From the results of the audits it becomes
evident that most of the material suppliers
audited still need to go a long way to be fully
aligned with the ZDHC environmental audit
protocol (Version 2.0), and some were found
to be lacking even very basic requirements.
In the meantime, each audited supplier has
already implemented a double-digit number
of corrective actions. We will continue to follow up with our key material suppliers for not
only environmental performance, but start to

Environmental Audit Results from 12 Key Suppliers

Country
China
Bangladesh
Bangladesh
Bangladesh
Taiwan
Taiwan
China
China
China
Guatemala
Taiwan
Turkey
Compliance rate

Certified
Environmental
Management
System

Valid Waste
Water Permit

Officially
licensed Hazardous Waste
Contractor

Valid Air
Emission
Permit

Environmental
Training
Program

ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
û
û
û
û
û
û
ü

û
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
û
ü
û
ü
ü
ü

ü
û
û
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
û
û
ü

û
ü
ü
ü
ü
ü
û
ü
û
û
ü
ü

ü
ü
ü
ü
û
û
û
û
û
û
û
ü

50%

75%

67%

67%

42%

ZDHC Foundation:
ZDHC is a textile industry collaboration of 21 leading brands, affiliates and
associate members. Its vision is the widespread implementation of sustainable
chemistry and best practices in the textile industry to protect consumers, workers
and the natural environment.
The ZDHC Roadmap demonstrates the ZDHC group’s collaborative efforts in
leading the apparel and footwear industry towards zero discharge of hazardous
chemicals for all products across all pathways by 2020.
www.roadmaptozero.com

assess them for social performance as well.
To supplement the environmental auditing,
PUMA has initiated waste water testing for
our 33 largest wet processing facilities, again
in co-operation with other brands of our sector. The results of this waste water testing
campaign are published on the website of
the u Institute of Public and Environmental
Affairs (IPE) in China, under the individual
name of each supplier company.
To support further alignment within our industry as part of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), we rolled out the SAC Higg Index
Environmental Facilities Module to over 100
PUMA key suppliers in 2015. Expanding on
a similar effort which hit 77 suppliers mainly from Tier 1 of our supply chain, we have
now expanded the SAC Higg coverage also
specifically to our material suppliers.

We hope that the expansion of the Higg Index
in 2016 will integrate environmental auditing and allow for the collection of detailed
E-KPIs at supplier level. In the meantime, we
have been collecting PUMA-specific regular
environmental KPIs from our key suppliers
over the last years. Please find the results of
this data collection in table T.10.
As we can see from the table T.10, the year
2015 saw significant reductions for all E-KPIs
compared to the previous year.
Reflecting on our original targets to improve
those KPIs by 25% between 2011 and 2015 it
is clear that this target has been met for water
consumption in all three product categories.
Accessories and Footwear met the waste
target, while Apparel reported an increase
of waste during the target period. The energy target was met by Accessories only, with
PUMA TRAINING | 59

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Apparel and Footwear reporting a more or
less stable energy consumption per pair or
piece over time and thus failed the reduction
target.
It is encouraging to see that all three product
divisions realized savings in terms of CO2 per
piece or pair, even though the savings ranked

T.10

only from 3% to 9%.

Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE
Our large-scale resource efficiency program
SAVE came to a conclusion at the end of
2015. Thirty-five PUMA and H&M key suppliers in the countries Bangladesh, Cambodia, China and Indonesia have undergone

extensive training, received detailed on-site
assessments, and were provided with a list
of economically viable resource efficiency
measures to save energy, water and waste.
Overall, 321 potential measures were identified. Out of these, 222 measures were reported with an average payback period of

two years, indicating a saving potential of
over USD 5 million.
We will continue to work with the suppliers
participating in SAVE to realize those savings
and consequently share the positive experience with other suppliers to multiply the effect.

Summary of Supplier E-KPIs* - 2015
WEIGHTED

E-KPI

% Change
(2014 vs. 2015)

% Change
(2011 vs. 2015)

Range 2015

Unit

Value 2011

Value 2012

Value 2013

Value 2014

Value 2015

kWh

0.5

0.4

0.5

0.4

0.38

-5%

-25%

0.20

0.68

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.4

0.39

-7%

N/A

0.19

0.76

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

kg

0.3

0.3

0.4

0.3

0.28

-10%

-6%

0.11

0.60

Water/piece

l

27

6.9

8.6

6.7

6.20

-7%

-77%

2.66

9.66

Waste/piece

g

27

23

37

28

24.79

-12%

-8%

13.07

37.57

kWh

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.8

0.62

-23%

3%

0.2

1.9

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.4

0.36

-10%

N/A

0.1

1.4

CO2/piece (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

kg

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.27

-9%

-9%

0.1

0.9

Water/piece

l

15

8.2

7.8

7.6

6.83

-10%

-54%

0.4

28.6

Waste/piece

g

42

72

81

61

50.62

-17%

21%

1.3

113.4

kWh

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

1.53

-1%

2%

0.3

2.9

CO2/pair (Scope 1, 2 and 3)

kg

N/A

N/A

N/A

1.4

1.35

-4%

N/A

0.2

2.4

CO2/pair (Scope 1, 2 & Biz Travel)

kg

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.9

0.87

-6%

-3%

0.2

1.9

Water/pair

l

32

24.2

26.8

23.5

18.30

-22%

-43%

1.4

39.3

Waste/pair

g

176

147

122

119

113.59

-5%

-35%

33.5

159.0

Min

Max

Accessories
Energy/piece

Apparel
Energy/piece

Footwear
Energy/pair

* Figures derived from 52 core suppliers worldwide, divided into three product divisions covering 80% of PUMA production worldwide.

60 | PUMA TRAINING

F.9

Highlights from the SAVE Project

More than

500

attendees
trained.

4 volumes of
Sustainability
Guidelines and
solid training
materials.

Material Performance
The year 2015 marked a change in the raw
material strategy of PUMA. While we were
still listed by Textile Exchange as the 10th
largest consumer of organic cotton and 5th
largest user of recycled polyester in their
2015 sector benchmark report, significant
upcharges on those more sustainable raw
materials in combination with a decreasing
overall profitability of the company meant
that we had to find more cost effective solutions when it comes to more sustainable raw
material usage.
We continue to believe that to create real
impact, more sustainable raw materials have
to be used in significant volumes and not only
for niche sustainability collections. Therefore,
we have identified bluesign® certified technical fabrics and cotton from the Better Cotton
Initiative (BCI) as key materials in our apparel

48 factories
joined to onsite
assessment

T.11

35 factories

Case
study
book.

24 knowledge

submitted
action plans.

sharing forums.

Computer
based training
system.

Overview of More Sustainable Materials Used in 2015
Apparel

Accessories

Footwear

Polyester

%

Cotton

%

Polyester

%

Leather

%

Cardboard &Paper

%

Polyester conventional

85

Conventional cotton

97

Polyester conventional

80

Gold

89

Recycled content

89

Polyester bluesign®

15

Organic cotton

3

Polyester bluesign®

20

FSC® certified content

85

and accessories ranges. Leather from
Leather Working Group-certified tanneries
and Forest Stewardship certified paper
and cardboard complement the list of cost
effective more sustainable raw materials.
To fill this new raw material strategy with
life, we have ensured that our main shoe
box is 100% FSC® certified. This shoe box
accounts for over 70% of all shoe boxes sold

Silver

4

Bronze

6

Not certified

<1

Traceability rating A/B

20

in 2015, a value that will be increased further
in 2016.

and 20% of accessories collections being
bluesign® certified.

Over 90% of all leather used in 2015 was
sourced from medal rated tanneries of the
Leather Working Group.

For cotton, we continued the use of organic
cotton but with 3% on a much smaller scale
than before. In parallel, we prepared for membership in the Better Cotton Initiative, which
will officially start on January 1st, 2016. From
next year onwards, we plan to use up to 20%
BCI cotton in our products.

Our partnership with bluesign technologies
was extended during the last year, resulting
in 15% of all polyester used in our Apparel

PUMA TRAINING | 61

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

STAKEHOLDER AND
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION
We believe that in order to mainstream the
sustainability efforts of our industry and
to achieve long-term and stable positive
impact within the factories and communities
we operate in, it is absolutely necessary to
collaborate with our industry peers.
While in most cases we may be able to
influence our direct contract partners at the
first tier of the supply chain – at least during
the time of our collaboration – our influence
is already declining at the second tier of
subcontractors and component suppliers.
At the material supplier level, PUMA is typically neither a direct customer of the fabric
mills or tanneries, nor the most important
buyer.
Therefore, we have placed a large emphasis on industry alignment and collaboration
and where feasible try to support existing
industry initiatives.
We also believe that to make the overall sys62 | PUMA TRAINING

tem more efficient, individual industry organizations need to align with others working in
the same field, ideally converging their tools
or at least harmonizing their systems.

u Replacing the PUMA-specific environmental key performance data collection
with the planned environmental data collection of the SAC

Examples of our efforts to support industry
alignment and collaboration were already
listed throughout the sustainability chapter
of this report. The most important ones are:

u Supporting a convergence of the environmental audit/assessment tools from
ZDHC and SAC

u Harmonizing the PUMA compliance
audit tool with the methodology of FLA
and Better Work (completed)
u Lobbying for a harmonization or convergence of the various existing supplier
social compliance assessments under
the umbrella of the SAC
u Lobbying for the introduction of relevant
social KPIs as part of the SAC framework on social standards to measure
performance in addition to compliance

u Supporting the publication of a joint
Restricted Substances List by the AFIRM
Group (completed)
u Co-Leading the creation of a harmonized waste water guidance document
and its implementation via the ZDHC
Such harmonization and alignment will
potentially free up resources currently spent
by brands and suppliers alike on multiple
audits for the same factories, multiple test
reports for hazardous chemicals on the
same materials and effluents, as well as
multiple capacity building and training pro-

jects focusing on similar subjects and suppliers.
Instead, we plan to use our resources more
effectively on creating true positive impact
for our direct and indirect employees as well
as the communities and environment they
operate in. Our new targets “10FOR20” will
guide our work in this respect.

ANTI-CORRUPTION
EFFORTS
8

“To take actions against
corruption is often the basis to
push through objectives in other
sustainability areas.”
Sylvia Schenk, Chair of Working Group Sport,
Transparency Deutschland

PUMA is a sports brand that conducts business worldwide. As such, we are well aware
that we potentially face the risk of non-compliance with laws and regulations by PUMA
employees or business partners in all our
business functions and all countries where
we conduct business. Those risks include
the risk of corruption, which can vary from
“low” to “high” depending on the country.

which consists of a defined group of senior
management members, including Managing
Directors of PUMA SE.

PUMA is a member of the UN Global Compact and commits to its principles, among
them the 10th principle: “Businesses should
work against corruption in all its forms,
including extortion and bribery.” The fight
against corruption therefore is highlighted
as a major goal of our Compliance Program,
and also a regular topic during dialogues
with NGOs, e.g. the stakeholder dialogue
meeting Talks at Banz.

Apart from the complaint channel for supply
chain workers that PUMA operates, PUMA
also continues to keep a global, third-partycontrolled whistle blowing hotline, as reported in previous years.

At PUMA, compliance-related topics are primarily addressed at the group-level in the
PUMA SE Risk & Compliance Committee,

Each planned Compliance (including anti-corruption) initiative at PUMA is presented to and
agreed on by the main governance bodies
(i.e. Managing Directors of PUMA SE, Audit
Committee, Administrative Board).

The major areas for PUMA regarding business ethics and compliance as well as
expected behavior are summarized in the
PUMA Code of Ethics. PUMA CEO Bjørn
Gulden communicated the current version
of the PUMA Code of Ethics – including
PUMA’s policy regarding Gifts & Hospitality – to all PUMA employees worldwide.

The document is available for download at
PUMA’s group-wide Intranet. The PUMA
Code of Ethics is also available online at
u http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/
standards/coe.

paign, to all PUMA employees. All PUMA
employees worldwide were called to take
part in the ethics e-learning program; as per
July 2015, 55% of PUMA employees had
completed it.

Updates of the PUMA Code of Ethics are
carried out on a regular basis.

Going forward, PUMA will continue to focus
on increasing the amount of employees covered by the online training program as well
as trained face-to-face. In 2015, Kering has
established a new Compliance Program,
which PUMA has joined. The Compliance
Program will strongly focus on antitrust and
anti-corruption.

Accompanying the PUMA Code of Ethics,
PUMA has – in cooperation with its major
shareholder Kering – introduced a groupwide ethics e-learning program with the
goal to increase awareness among employees for business ethics including corruption.
This program was launched in 2014 and
continued in 2015 with its 2nd edition consisting of modules covering the following topics: behavior at the work place, respecting
human rights, respect for the environment
and anti-bribery.

We welcome your comments on our PUMA
sustainability strategy and its implementation as well as any topics covered in
the sustainability chapter of this report at
u sustainability@puma.com.

The e-learning edition of 2015 was promoted
by PUMA’s CEO, as the sponsor of the cam8

G4-24

PUMA TRAINING | 63

COMPANY OVERVIEW

OUR EMPLOYEES
People@PUMA 65
Independent Assurance Report 73

PEOPLE@PUMA
Attracting the best talents from all over the
world as well as retaining engaged employees belongs
to our company’s main goals. We are on a constant
search for qualified employees with the right skill sets
to continuously grow in the dynamic markets we do
business in.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training hard to always
move forward and take the
next step. However, taking
breaks and enjoying past
achievements is equally
important. #NoMatterWhat.”
Simon Holthaus, Junior Manager Sports
Marketing Football National Teams

65 | PUMA TRAINING

PUMA is successfully facing rapidly growing
demands regarding its attractiveness as an
employer by providing a holistic approach
that includes individual development, talent
management, and benefits. All of this ties in
well with PUMA’s strategy of being “Forever
Faster” and strengthens our positioning as
an employer of choice.

Growing Talent
Young talents are an important pillar of
PUMA’s development strategy. We believe
in developing and fostering our young
employees from an early point in their
career to equip them with the necessary
skill sets for their various roles in the PUMA
Group. Building on the success in previous years, PUMA once more expanded the

number of apprentices and dual students in
2015. This year, 23 new dual students and
apprentices joined PUMA headquarters
in Herzogenaurach. In total, PUMA had
60 apprentices and dual students by the
end of 2015, majoring in different fields of
study such as International Business or
Warehouse Logistics. Through their classes
at vocational school or college they gain
expertise and can apply the knowledge at
their PUMA workplace.

Training and Development
We believe that qualified, motivated and
talented colleagues, who live up to our
mantra of being “Forever Faster” are a prerequisite for PUMA’s future growth and
strengthen our positioning as a global
PUMA TRAINING | 65

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Fostering young talents: our new apprentices and dual students at our headquarters

Close control of the ball: An ILP group facing challenges on the soccer court

player. In addition, employees who are
willing to continuously develop themselves
– both professionally and personally – can
grow beyond their limits and contribute to
the company’s success. PUMA offers a
variety of trainings and workshops, either
pre-defined or tailored to individual needs.
In 2015, 8,550 employees worldwide have
taken part in trainings and workshops with
a total of 155,624 hours. This is a slight
increase compared to the numbers of last
year.

management trainings is the PUMA International Leadership Program (ILP), which has
been a success in the past years, as it helps
to establish a consistent leadership approach
on a global basis and supports managers
in their leadership skills and daily business
decisions. The ILP program is in place worldwide with groups of participants in our EMEA,
APAC, LATAM and North America regions.
In 2015, 166 managers globally participated
in PUMA’s ILP, which will be continued and
extended in the coming years.

foundation for our company’s long-term
development and success. At PUMA, we
therefore focus on providing our employees with attractive career and development
opportunities within the company in line with
our areas of growth and the resulting future
demands for qualified team members.

and updated. At the end of 2015, 5,685
employees across PUMA offices worldwide
worked with People@PUMA and its different modules (performance management,
compensation & benefits, career & succession planning, training & development,
skills & competency management).

An important part of our training and development strategy are the trainings for our
management, which were further expanded
throughout 2015. A central element of these

Talent Management

In addition to annual appraisal talks, which
are carried out with all employees to discuss company and personal goals, PUMA
introduced a company-wide talent management culture in 2015 with a focus on
management training and career development. Therefore, our internal integrated
performance and talent management system People@PUMA was further rolled out

We consider our managers to be the main
drivers in discovering and fostering talents,
so we enabled them through extensive training to understand the process of talent management and successfully implement it in
their respective departments. PUMA developed a talent management business simulation, which teaches managers in a playful
yet holistic approach to identify, recruit and

66 | PUMA TRAINING

Professional talent management and succession planning are essential to lay the

develop internal talents. In 2015, systematic talent conferences were conducted with
managers at all levels up to board conferences on Managing Director’s level. Talents
with either horizontal or vertical development potential are constantly being identified, considering aspects such as individual
performance, potential, development direction and mobility. This analysis of employee
profiles enables PUMA to prepare individual development plans. Additionally, internal
successors for important key positions are
discussed at an early stage.
This process has been started in our headquarters in Germany; with North America,
EEMEA, APAC and Europe to follow in the
upcoming months. Furthermore, People@
PUMA is equipped with a global internal
talent pool, making it possible to match talents with internal vacancies. One key goal
of our extended talent management is – in
addition to the fast staffing of vacancies
through internal candidates – to guarantee a high global mobility within the PUMA
Group.

Diversity
A diverse workforce is another key element
of PUMA’s unique corporate culture. We are

convinced that our success and competitiveness relies on our ability to embrace diversity
by bringing together employees with various nationalities,
backgrounds and experiences. As part of our PUMA
spirit, we foster diversity and
the courage to think and be
different and therefore ensure
an impartial working environment, where all employees
have equal opportunities,
regardless of gender, race,
nationality, ethnic origin, religion or ideology, physical
ability, age, sexual orientation
or identity. This approach is
reflected by our diverse workforce with employees from
44 countries and one-day
cultural awareness trainings
offered to all new employees
at headquarters in Germany.
Through these trainings, an important understanding of differences and similarities is
gained and how to take advantage of them
in order to make daily work more effective.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”

“I am training to start every day
motivated so that I can achieve
great results. Excellence in
sports and my professional
life is very important for me.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Anna Christgau, Trainee

In 2015, we had 47% of female employees
and 53% of male employees. This almost
balanced ratio has been stable over the past
PUMA TRAINING | 67

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

T.1

Percentage of women in management

Region

F.1
2013

2014

2015

APAC

34%

38%

42%

LATAM

30%

29%

33%

North America

38%

40%

42%

Europe

34%

EEMEA
Total

34%

29%

30%

39%

39%

35%

37%

* Until 2013 the regions Europe and EEMEA were reported combined.

Wellbeing@PUMA

SELF MANAGEMENT
EMPLOYEE
DISCOUNT
PUMA
LEARNING PLAZA

FLEXIBLE WORKING HOURS
AND LOCATIONS

PUMA INTERNATIONAL
LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
SPORTS EVENTS

PUMA
SOCCER
PARENT-CHILD OFFICES
COURT

REIMBURSEMENT OF PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION COSTS

PRIVATE PENSION
OPTIONS
CAPITAL FORMING
PAYMENTS

WELCOME AT
PUMA SHOPPING
VOUCHER
WORKSITE BANK

COOPERATION
WITH CHILD
CARE FACILITIES

CANTEEN
SUBSIDY

FAMILY
SERVICE

MEDICAL INSURANCE
FOR BUSINESS TRIPS

BUDDY
PROGRAM

years. Across all management levels, of the
workforce women accounted for 37%. Even
though this number has increased compared to the previous year, we continue our
worldwide efforts to raise the percentage of
women in management positions, especially
on the upper management levels.
To achieve this increase, PUMA has
committed to a women’s quota of 20% and
30% respectively for the two management
levels underneath the managing directors.
We have set the goal to reach these figures
until end the of June 2017. PUMA aims to
continuously support the development of
women in management positions and to set
an example of a diverse company with equal
opportunities for both genders.
68 | PUMA TRAINING

COMPANY SPORTS
PROGRAM

Wellbeing@PUMA
SOCIAL ROOMS

We believe that employees are more motivated and productive at work, if they feel
well – both mentally and physically. This is
one of the reasons why our concept Wellbeing@PUMA was further expanded and
updated in 2015 to broaden our range of
offers to employees and to provide a holistic package of benefits for them. While
originating at headquarters in Herzogenaurach, our Wellbeing@PUMA approach
has also been picked up by various PUMA
sites around the world and adapted to
local needs and regulations. All of our
Wellbeing@PUMA initiatives have one idea
in common: to offer a variety of services
and benefits that make PUMA’s employ-

SOLIDARITY LEAVE

Mental Wellbeing
Structural Wellbeing

MASSAGE/PHYSIO
AT WORK
SOCIAL EVENTS

COMPANY DOCTOR

KIDS CAMP

Social Wellbeing
Physical Wellbeing

ees feel good and healthy and make our
company an even more attractive place to
work at.

FREE GYM

In line with our roots in sports, we offer a
variety of one-time sports events and activities throughout the year as well as regular
internal sports courses. For the employees

at our headquarters, 24 events and 20 weekly sports courses were offered in 2015, with
a total of 1,540 registrations, which reflects
an increase of more than 25% compared to
2014. Similar initiatives and courses have
been implemented worldwide.

As our wellbeing approach combines four
different aspects of wellbeing – mental,
structural, social and physical initiatives –
we cater to our employees’ needs in all of
these categories. In 2015, our headquarters
in Germany successfully conducted “audit
beruf & familie” (job & family) and received
the relevant certificate, which proves that
we already offer a wide range of different
actions to support our employees’ work-life
balance and will further extend this in order
to facilitate the integration of both their private and professional lives.

Working Conditions and Flexible
Working Modules
We want our employees to enjoy an attractive and inviting working environment, as
we believe this supports a good work environment and results in commitment and
loyalty. Our goal is to minimize the number
of employee-initiated exits and to keep the
percentage of employees in a permanent

When the mountain calls. The snow shoe hiking group reached its destination

employment above 80%. In the last year,
81% of employees worldwide had a permanent contract and the employments of
almost 30% employees were covered by a
collective bargaining agreement. The turnover rate in 2015 varied between 7% and
66%, depending on the share of the retail
business in the respective markets and the
region. In total, a turnover rate of 28% was
recorded. The availability of a variety of flexible working modules at PUMA allows our
rather young workforce with an average
age of 33 in 2015 to make arrangements
regarding their working conditions that suit
their individual needs. This ultimately leads
to a more productive and engaged workforce and is also reflected in the number
of employees employed in part-time, which
was at 25% at the end of 2015.

Employee Opinion Survey
In October 2015, we conducted our biannual global employee opinion survey,
together with our majority shareholder
Kering and the external provider Hay
Group. More than 7,600 employees took
part and seized the opportunity to state
their opinion about their workplace and
their professional life. Compared to the
last survey in 2013, the participation rate
increased to 76%, which is a plus of 14%.
We at PUMA value the high engagement of
our employees and are proud of their commitment and loyalty to the brand. Across
all questions, PUMA performed very well
and the percentage of favourable answers
considerably rose, which reflects a higher employee satisfaction than two years

PUMA’s certification of a family-oriented human resources
policy that supports employees in different phases of life

ago. The most improved area is Training &
Development with +6% compared to 2013,
which shows that our actions towards these
topics in the last years have been appreciated by employees all over the world.
Reflected areas that need improvement will
be identified on global, country or department level and appropriate actions will be
taken in the coming months.

PUMA TRAINING | 69

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Let’s dance: children of our employees having fun at the PUMA kids day

Social Networks
Since we started our employer-related social
media initiatives in 2012, we have constantly
expanded our presence in social networks
such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and
Xing. The number of people, who follow us
on these channels, has continuously grown
since then. For example, our base of followers on our employer LinkedIn account has
almost grown fivefold to over 140,000 since
its launch in 2013. Through of these different platforms, we can easily and effectively
70 | PUMA TRAINING

communicate job postings, general facts
and figures and trending isssues, while
also establishing a constant dialogue with
our target groups. Furthermore, PUMA is
represented on different employer review
websites like kununu and glassdoor, which
are important sources for direct feedback
from applicants, current and former employees. Our aim is to manifest PUMA as a
sports company and attractive employer in
the minds of our followers.

Charity Cat
Throughout 2015, PUMA continued its support of Charity Cat e.V., the charity founded
by PUMA employees in 2004. The organi-

Smiling faces among kids in Nepal following a product donation

zation again benefitted from various product
donations, as well as financial donations
from PUMA SE or its employees.
In 2015, one of Charity Cat’s key topics
was the global refugee situation. Forming close synergies with PUMA SE’s HR
department, Charity Cat reached out to
regional organisations such as the “Flüchtlingsbetreuung Herzogenaurach” (refugee
support Herzogenaurach), “Ehrenamtliche
Flüchtlingsbetreuung in Erlangen” (volunteers supporting refugees in Erlangen) or
“Oase Hersbruck” with donations including
football kits and boots for sports activities,
much-needed winter jackets and other
articles of clothing.

On an international level, Charity Cat
focussed on Nepal following the earthquake in April. Charity Cat rounded up a
donation of € 951.43 from PUMA employees to € 2,000, which it donated to
HUMEDICA for emergency relief. This
came on top of € 3,000 that had already
been donated to this organization.
Further financial donations were made
to “Nepalhilfe-im-kleinen-Rahmen e.V.”,
which will use these funds for rebuilding
projects, particularly schools, in remote

mountainous regions of Nepal. The organization has become part of Charity Cat’s
portfolio of ongoing partner projects, which
also include the Children Promotion Society (CPS) in Nepal, children’s charity FONMAEH on Haiti, children’s house “Bolle”
in Berlin or “Von Herz zu Herz” that helps
families in need on the Philippines.
For more information on Charity Cat’s project
portfolio, please visit u www.charity-cat.de.

Worker’s Council
The European worker’s council of PUMA
SE had 14 members in 2015, seven of
which were women. They represent
employees in ten countries. The Chairman is German, the other member of the
Executive Committee is Austrian.
The German worker’s council of PUMA
SE consists of ten male and five female
members. The Chairperson and the
Vice Chairperson both have the German
nationality.
Furthermore, there is an employee who
represents the interests of handicapped
employees.

Occupational Health and Safety
We are striving to keep our employees
healthy and safe by providing a work environment, which is geared towards
different aspects of safety and
health.
In our locations around the
world, safety related trainings are conducted in order to
prepare employees for potential
emergency situations. These trainings amounted to a total of 9,720
hours in 2015. In the past year, 5,737
employees have been trained in fire
evacuation and 3,270 in employees in first aid. These numbers
reflect an increase compared
to the previous year and show
PUMA’s continuous effort on
this topic.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“With my training I want to
maintain a balance in my life
– between work and play as
well as between mental
and physical fitness.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Lisa Huber, Product Line
Manager Accessories

The health and motivation of
our employees is reflected in our
absenteeism rate due to sickness,
which was at 1.78% in 2015 – a further reduction compared to 2014 and a
continuation of the positive trend
from past years. Worldwide, 119
accidents that caused a work
PUMA TRAINING | 71

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

stoppage were recorded. This corresponds to an injury rate of 1.07, according to the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA).

Compensation and Benefits
Worldwide, PUMA offers an attractive set
of compensation and benefit programs to
attract the best talents in the market as well
as to retain and reward talented employees.
Collective bargaining agreements are in
place at a lot of subsidiaries and allow for
a salary exceeding industry average and
extended annual leave. Furthermore, a variety of benefit plans such as defined contribution and deferred compensation retirement
plans are offered. In order to stay competitive in the market as well as to ensure compatibility with our corporate goals, regular
compensation and benefit reviews are conducted.
Since we believe that strong performances
need to be rewarded, we seek to create a
compensation program in line with individual and/or business performance. Shortterm and long-term incentives or bonus
plans are offered to a certain
group of employees.
72 | PUMA TRAINING

Short-term incentive plan payouts are linked
to both business performance and sustainability targets. Long-term rewards include
stock options.

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to get a little bit
better every day, to take PUMA’s
Employer Branding forward.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Franziska Traut, Manager Human
Resources Development

INDEPENDENT
ASSURANCE
REPORT
To PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach
We have been engaged to perform a
limited review of the materiality analysis,
management approaches and quantitative
and
qualitative
information
in
the
sustainability part of the annual report
(hereinafter: the report) of PUMA SE,
Herzogenaurach (hereinafter: PUMA), for
the business year starting January 1st, to
December 31st, 2015. It was not part of
our engagement to review any product or
service related statements, any links to
external sources, future-looking statements,
or statements from external experts.

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Board of Directors is

responsible for the accurate preparation of
the report in accordance with the criteria
stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and the Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard
of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) (hereinafter: “GHG Protocol”).
This responsibility includes the selection
and application of appropriate methods to
prepare the report as well as the usage
of reasonable assumptions and estimates
for individual sustainability disclosures.

Furthermore, the responsibility includes
designing, implementing and maintaining
systems and processes relevant for the
preparation of the report in a way that it is
free of – intended or unintended – material
misstatements.

Our Independence and Quality Control
We have met the requirements regarding
independence along with the additional
requirements relating to professional conduct of the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which is based on the
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care,
confidentiality and professional conduct
worthy of the profession.
The quality assurance system of Deloitte &
Touche GmbH is based on the International Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality
Control for Audit, Assurance and Related
Service Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition on national statutory requirements and
professional standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified Accountants as
well as the joint statement of WPK (Chamber
of Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of
Public Auditors in Germany): Requirements
for quality assurance in the auditing practice
(VO 1/2006).

Practitioner’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion
based on our work performed and the evidences obtained on the above mentioned
information of the report.

Procedures and extend of the
assurance engagement
We conducted our work in accordance
with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits
or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. This standard requires that we comply with our professional duties and give
an attestation, based on the results of our
work, as to whether any matters have come
to our knowledge that could give rise to the
assumption that the sustainability information as stated in the Annual Report 2015
does not comply, in all material respects,
with the above mentioned criteria of the
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of
the GRI. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures
are more limited than in a reasonable
assurance engagement. Hence, the scope
of a limited review is less comprehensive
and may not reasonably assure all material
facts as could a reasonable assurance. The
selection of audit activities is subject to the
PUMA TRAINING | 73

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

auditor’s own judgement. This includes the
assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the report under consideration of
the GRI reporting criteria.

u

Our assurance procedures included the following areas:

Interviews with relevant staff at group
level responsible for providing the data
and information, carrying out internal
control procedures and consolidating the
data and information, including the
explanatory notes (on-site interviews
and conference calls)

u

Strategy & Business Context

u

Analytical procedures on relevant data

u

Chemical Management & Raw Materials

u

u

Environmental and Social Reporting

Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the PUMA consolidated financial statement and management and management report

u

Emission Reporting (Scope 1,2 and 3)

u

Logistics

u

Supply Chain Management (incl. Social
& Environmental Audit System)

u

u

Human Resources

Within the scope of our work, we performed
amongst others the following procedures
when conducting the limited assurance
engagement:
u

Gaining an understanding of the process for determining material sustainability topics and respective boundaries of PUMA

74 | PUMA TRAINING

Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we
make the following recommendations for the
further development of the company’s sustainability management and sustainability
reporting
u

Further integration of sustainability
and financial figures

u

Timely setting-up of measurements and
internal control systems for new targets
and corresponding KPIs

u

Enhanced improvement of data aggregation on relevant KPIs to ensure longterm sustainability performance measurement

Evaluation of relevant information on
sustainability performance

Our Conclusion
Based on our limited review, nothing has
come to our knowledge that could give
rise to the assumption that the materiality
analysis, management approaches and
quantitative and qualitative information in
the sustainability part of the annual report
2015 of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach does
not comply with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the GRI
and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
Standard of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD).

u

PUMA. We do not assume any responsibilities for third parties.

Munich, 15th of February 2016

Deloitte & Touche GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

(Christof Stadter)
(Certified Public Accountant)		

Enlarge scope of S-KPIs and deepen
E-KPIs in the supply chain

(Vinzenz Fundel)
This assurance report is issued based on an
assurance engagement agreed upon with
PUMA SE. The assurance engagement to
obtain limited assurance is issued on purpose
of PUMA SE and the report is solely for information purposes of PUMA SE on the results
of the assurance engagement. This assurance report is not intended as a basis for
(financial) decision-making by third parties of
any kind. We have responsibility only towards

Manager Sustainability

GROUP
MANAGEMENT
REPORT
Overview 2015 76
PUMA Group Essential Information 78

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure 78
Targets and Strategy 79
Product Development and Design 81
Sourcing 82
Management System 85

Economic Report 86

General Economic Conditions 86
Sales 86
Results of Operations 89
Dividends 92
Regional Development 93
Net Assets and Financial Position 95
Cash Flow 97

Compensation Report 99
Risk and Opportunity Management 101
Information Concerning Takeovers 106
Supplemental Report and Outlook 108
Corporate Governance Report including
the Statement on Corporate Governance 110

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“Being the fastest brand in
Motorsport we continuously
strive to become faster
and more efficient in all
aspects of our business.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Michael Lämmermann,
Chief Financial Officer

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

OVERVIEW 2015

PUMA got off to a strong start in the financial
year 2015 with the successful introduction
of our latest running innovation, IGNITE, in
New York’s Time Square by the fastest man
in the world, Usain Bolt. IGNITE’s innovative
foam technology improves energy recovery
when running and therefore embodies our
Forever Faster mission statement. Sales
got off to a solid start both at our retail partners and at PUMA’s own retail stores and
sales figures remained at a very high level
throughout the year. The introduction of
IGNITE included a series of short films in
which teams of runners from ten major cities around the world illuminate their cities in
very different ways. The campaign quickly
became a viral success in social media and
generated positive resonance online and in
the press.
In the Team Sports category, we once
again underscored our strong position and
76 | PUMA TRAINING

achieved a high brand presence both at the
Copa América in Chile and the FIFA Women’s World Cup in Canada. In the Copa América, Chile, the host and PUMA team capped
its strong performance in the tournament by
winning its first continental championship. In
the women’s soccer World Cup, PUMA star
Marta made headlines by taking sole possession of the record for most goals in World
Cup history, while the German national
player Célia Šašic was the top scorer of the
tournament with six goals. Together with the
three PUMA teams Cameroon, Ivory Coast
and Switzerland, the more than 50 PUMA
players created a strong brand presence
during the World Cup.
In our Running and Training category,
we enjoyed a successful World Athletics
Championship in Beijing in August, where
the PUMA-sponsored athletes and teams
turned in outstanding performances and

reached the podium 18 times. Usain Bolt,
the fastest man in the world, further strengthened his status as the most successful
athlete of all time with three victories - at 100
meters, 200 meters, and in the 4x100 meter
relay - giving him a total of 11 world championship gold medals. The performance of
the team from Jamaica, which was second
on the medals table after Kenya, and the
performances of the other PUMA-sponsored teams the Bahamas, Cuba, Grenada,
Cayman Islands, Switzerland and the
Dominican Republic, ensured a strong presence of the PUMA brand during the competition.
In our successful Motorsports category,
with our partners Mercedes AMG Petronas
and Scuderia Ferrari we again underscored
PUMA’s position as the leading supplier in
Formula 1. Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton
secured his third world title at the US Grand

Prix. This was the most successful season
in more than 60 years for the Silver Arrow,
which was victorious in the Constructors’
Championship very early on.
In September, COBRA PUMA GOLF player Rickie Fowler won the Deutsche Bank
Championship at TPC Boston. In his typical
orange outfit, he once again took first place
using our COBRA driver from the Fly-Z+
range, and wore clothing and shoes from
our 2015 fall/winter collection, including the
Titantour, the most popular shoe in the world
of golf today. COBRA PUMA GOLF star Lexi
Thompson won the LPGA KEG Hana Bank
Championship in South Korea; her second
tournament victory and sixth title overall
demonstrated again that she is an exceptional talent.
In addition, in the financial year 2015 we
continued to accelerate the improvement of

our product range for women and our more
targeted consumer approach in this area.
A key element of this is the partnership we
have developed jointly with the international star Rihanna as brand ambassador and
creative director. Rihanna plays an important role in our second Forever Faster brand
campaign, in which we have invested several million euros and which focuses on “training”. We introduced the first shoe models
and apparel inspired by Rihanna in her role
as brand ambassador. The Creeper model
is Rihanna’s first sneaker under her FENTY
label. The shoe received a great deal of
attention on social media and in the press
and was sold out within hours.
In order to further increase the quality of our
sales, we have continued to work hard with
our sales organizations to improve both the
relations with our strategic customers and
new customer relationships with major retail-

ers in traditional and growth markets. For
example, we continued to expand our presence in major sports retailers in the North
American market such as Finish Line and
Champs by adding new shop-in-shop systems, special shelving units and permanent
in-store communication. In our own retail
stores we moved forward with the global
introduction of our new Forever Faster store
concept.
We also continued to simplify our organizational structure and setup in the last financial year. This included putting the PUMA
regions Europe and EEMEA under joint
management. In addition, we created synergies in many areas which made PUMA both
faster and more efficient.
Regarding the optimization of our IT department, we continued to work on implementing a standardized ERP system, renewing

our IT infrastructure and improving our
design and product development processes.
With the measures successfully initiated in
2014 and successfully continued in 2015,
we are firmly convinced that we are on the
right path. However, one thing bears repeating: We know that the repositioning of PUMA
and the turnaround of the business will take
time as we need to continue to build confidence in the marketplace that we are on the
right track. We are convinced that our efforts
have already translated into better products,
stronger marketing and more efficient operations.

profile of our products. Group sales rose,
currency-adjusted, by 6.5% in the last financial year. In the reporting currency, the Euro,
this corresponds to an increase of 14.0% to
about € 3.4 billion. In 2015, gross profit margin decreased by 110 basis points to 45.5%
compared to the previous year due to negative exchange rate effects. This reduced
operating income to € 96.3 million from €
128.0 million in the previous year. The gross
profit margin and operating income were
thus at the upper end of the adjusted forecast. Consolidated net income was € 37.1
million (previous year: € 64.1 million) and
earnings per share were € 2.48 compared
to € 4.29 in 2014.

PUMA’s rising sales show that we are on
the right path with respect to improving our
product offering. The strong sales in the Performance category, especially in the shoe
business, underscores the extremely high

At the end of the year, the PUMA share listed at € 198.65, a 15.1% increase over the
share price at the end of the previous year
(€ 172.55). This means that the market capitalization has risen to around € 3.0 billion.
PUMA TRAINING | 77

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

PUMA GROUP
ESSENTIAL
INFORMATION

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure
The registered offices of the PUMA Group
are located in Herzogenaurach, Germany.
We trade under the name PUMA SE. Our internal reporting activities are based according to regions (EMEA, America and Asia/
Pacific) and products (footwear, apparel
and accessories). A detailed description of
the various segments can be found in paragraph 25 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Our revenues are derived from the sale of
products from the PUMA and COBRA Golf
brands via the wholesale and retail trade,
as well as from sales directly to consumers
in our own retail stores and online stores.
78 | PUMA TRAINING

PUMA markets and distributes its products
worldwide primarily via its own subsidiaries.
There are distribution agreements in place
with independent distributors in some countries.
As of December 31, 2015, 108 subsidiaries were controlled directly or indirectly by
PUMA SE. Our subsidiaries carry out various tasks at the local level, such as sales,
marketing, product development, procurement and management. A full list of all subsidiaries and an associated company can
be found in paragraph 2 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Targets and Strategy
To be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world
PUMA is one of the world’s leading sports
brands, designing, developing, selling and
marketing footwear, apparel and accessories. For over 65 years, PUMA has been
producing the most innovative products for
the fastest athletes on the planet. PUMA
offers performance and sport-inspired
lifestyle products in categories such as
Football, Running and Training, Golf, and
Motorsports. PUMA engages in exciting collaborations with renowned design brands
such as Alexander McQueen as well as designers like BWGH (Brooklyn We Go Hard)
and Vashtie to bring innovative and fast designs to the sports world. The PUMA Group
owns the brands PUMA and COBRA Golf
as well the subsidiary Dobotex. PUMA distributes its products in more than 120 countries and employs more than 11,000 people
worldwide.
In 2013, Bjørn Gulden (CEO) introduced
PUMA’s new mission statement: To be the
Fastest Sports Brand in the world. The com-

pany’s mission not only reflects PUMA’s new
brand positioning of being Forever Faster, it
also serves as the guiding principle for the
company expressed through all of its actions
and decisions. Our objective is to be fast in
reacting to new trends, fast in bringing new
innovations to the market, fast in decisionmaking and fast in solving problems for our
partners.

Strategic priorities
Our strategy encompasses five strategic
priorities: the repositioning of PUMA as the
World’s Fastest Sports Brand, the improvement of our product engine, the optimization of our distribution quality, increasing the
speed within our organization and infrastructure, and renewing our IT infrastructure.
The repositioning of our brand, which we
began in 2014 with the largest brand campaign in company history, was clearly the
focus of our activities again in 2015. Our objective is to demonstrate that PUMA is back
in sports and that our brand has great assets
and a distinctive attitude: Brave, confident,

determined, and joyful. The second Forever
Faster brand campaign, in which we invested several million Euros in 2015, focuses
on our brand ambassadors and shows how
they are training with PUMA products to get
into peak form for the major competitions in
2016. Rihanna joined Usain Bolt, Arsenal
London and other athletes for the campaign
on a number of fronts, including the first TV
spot for our training shoe IGNITE XT. Leading up to this, she ensured a high level of attention in the media and on social networks.
In 2015 we made great strides in further
improving our product engine. The collections stood out for their clearer design,
more innovative technology and the greater commerciality of the products. Not only
was the feedback from our retail partners
positive, but the significant increase in sales
strengthens our conviction that we are
heading in the right direction. The product
highlights in 2015 include our new running
shoe technology IGNITE, which we have
expanded into a cornerstone of our Running and Training category with continuous

new product launches – such as the IGNITE
PWRCOOL and the IGNITE XT – since its
market introduction in February. In Football,
we continued to strengthen our position
and further expanded our product platforms
evoSPEED and evoPOWER. The new products include evoSPEED SL, which is now
the lightest football shoe in the market at
103 grams. In Lifestyle, we introduced the
first shoe styles inspired by Rihanna. The
Creeper is Rihanna’s first sneaker under
her FENTY label. The shoe received a great
deal of attention on social media and in the
press and the first color options were sold
out within hours. In addition, we also introduced the boxing-inspired Eskiva shoe. We
will introduce a complete women’s collection
of shoes and apparel in 2016 working with
Rihanna as creative director.
In order to improve the quality of our sales
and distribution, we introduced joint product and marketing programs with our key
retailers to showcase our brand in the right
retail environment and drive sell-through
with our partners. In 2015, we continued the
PUMA TRAINING | 79

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

roll-out of the retail concept “PUMA Lab”,
initially launched with Foot Locker in 2014,
both in the U.S. and in the first location in
Europe. During the year we began collaborating with other well-known retailers with
the aim of improving the presence of the
PUMA brand in stores, better communicating our product promise on site, and thereby
achieving a sustained sales increase. For
example, we continued to expand our presence in major sports retailers such as Finish
Line and Champs by adding new shop-inshop systems, special shelving units and
permanent in-store communication. We also
developed a completely new Forever Faster
store concept for the Company’s own retail
stores. This concept was first introduced at
the Group headquarters in Herzogenaurach
and then in 20 additional locations during
the year. The new store concept optimizes
the presentation of our products and the related technologies and strengthens our position as a sports brand. To further expand our
online presence, we launched an improved,
integrated web shop and rolled it out in other
markets in 2015. The continuous optimiza80 | PUMA TRAINING

tion of the website and our online product
offering is a high priority for PUMA.
In 2015, we continued to optimize our organizational structure and setup by making them faster. One of the key projects was
standardizing and optimizing the procedures between PUMA and its external suppliers by restructuring the sourcing organization to manage global order and invoice
flows. We also simplified our organization in
other areas and made processes faster. For
example, our Sportstyle and Fundamentals
product areas were merged under the leadership of a single manager. PUMA is also
more efficiently organized now in the Europe and Asia/Pacific regions and can react
more quickly to dynamic market influences.
We also made further progress in the modernization and expansion of our IT infrastructure in 2015. As part of this initiative,
we have made it possible for additional markets to access a single ERP system and
modernized the IT infrastructure at PUMA
worldwide. In 2016, we will again focus on

three areas: optimize our IT infrastructure,
start the implementation of a standard ERP
system to support our sourcing and trading
functions, and set up platforms to improve
the design, development and planning processes. We are very confident that our investment in these areas will lay the foundation for a fast, lean and efficient company in
the future.

Sustainability remains an
important value
Social, economic and environmental sustainability are among the core values at
PUMA. We believe that the balance of these
three aspects is key to the sustainable development of our business and faster is how
we are working with our partners towards a
more just and sustainable future, accelerating positive change in the industry and the
world. Our mission to be the fastest sports
brand in the world also includes assuming
responsibility for ensuring that our products
are manufactured under appropriate working conditions and produced by suppliers
who respect human rights.

We believe that “The future is
female”
For years, the market segment of female
consumers has been an above-average
performer for sports products. And women
will continue to be more and more involved
in sports worldwide, and sports is having an
ever increasing influence on fashion. PUMA
is a pioneer in this segment and we have set
standards for years with the success of our
models and collaborations with designers.
And we are now strengthening our strategic
focus on the female target group. A key element of this strategy is the partnership we
have developed jointly with the international star Rihanna as brand ambassador and
creative director. Rihanna took on an important role in our second Forever Faster brand
campaign in 2015. In 2016 with the introduction of a complete women’s collection of
shoes and textiles, she will be a vital part of
improving our product offering for women in
our Performance and Sportstyle categories.

Product Development and Design
Product philosophy and strategy
PUMA is one of the world’s leading Sports
Brands, developing, selling and marketing
footwear, apparel and accessories in our
Performance and Sportstyle categories.
In Performance, we focus on lightweight,
comfortable and dynamic product concepts,
while our Sportstyle lines are inspired by
our roots in sports. Product responsibility is
organized within our global business units
and regional design centers, with PUMA’s
design language for all collections defined
by our creative director Torsten Hochstetter.
To improve our product engine, in 2015 we
initiated key projects to enhance our product
designs, develop more innovative technologies and increase the commerciality of our
product range.
Following the introduction of our latest running innovation, IGNITE, in New York’s
Times Square by the fastest man in the
world, Usain Bolt, sales of our new running
shoe technology got off to a strong start –
both with our retail partners and through

Puma’s own retail stores. IGNITE’s innovative shock-absorbing technology improves
energy recovery when running and, with the
best figures in this area among our competitors, the shoe embodies our mission statement “Forever Faster”.
In our Spring/Summer collection, we expanded our successful IGNITE product
program to include the IGNITE PWRCOOL.
PWRCOOL is PUMA’s technology for cooling which maintains optimum body temperature and thus saves energy. The apparel
and shoes in the PWRCOOL collection are
made of CoolCELL materials: advanced
materials that transport perspiration to
the outside and allow optimal temperature
regulation through the use of anatomically
positioned mesh panels on the body’s heat
zones.
In the Team Sports category, we once
again underscored our strong position and
achieved a high brand presence both at
the Copa América in Chile and the FIFA

Women’s World Cup in Canada. The two
tournaments provided a perfect platform for
introducing the innovative PUMA football
shoe evoSPEED SL. The new model’s light,
almost transparent outer textile material
makes it our lightest football shoe yet. The
PUMA SPEEDFRAME contributes to minimizing weight while providing the necessary
stability.
In addition, we continued to accelerate the
improvement of our product range for women
and our more targeted consumer approach
in this area. Building on a strong history and
the high credibility we enjoy among our female consumers, we will continue to focus
on the growth potential in this segment. A
key element in this strategy is our partnership with the international star Rihanna. In
2015, we introduced the first shoe models
and apparel inspired by Rihanna in her role
as brand ambassador in our Forever Faster
brand campaign. The Creeper model is Rihanna’s first sneaker under her FENTY label. It is a blend of PUMA’s classic Suede

with a “creeper” platform sole inspired by
the New York punk rock scene and Rihanna’s trademark. The first limited edition of
the Creeper in black and white attracted a
great deal of attention on social media and
in the press, and was sold out within a few
hours. In November, the boxing-inspired Eskiva shoe followed, giving a small taste of
the complete women’s collection of shoes
and apparel which we will introduce in 2016.
2015 has shown that we are on the right
path with respect to improving our product
offering. The strong sales performance, especially in the shoe business, underscores
the extremely high profile of our products.
Our successful product initiatives are an affirmation of our objective of being the fastest sports brand in the world. In the coming
seasons we will continue our efforts to further improve our product range – especially
for women. The continuous optimization in
our close cooperation with major retail partners is an essential component of our strategy for new product introductions.
PUMA TRAINING | 81

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Sourcing
Sourcing refers to the central management
of the purchasing of products for PUMA and
the Group’s own brand, COBRA. The necessary sourcing tasks are carried out centrally by the Group company World Cat Ltd.
in Hong Kong.
World Cat Ltd. manages the various branches located around the world from Hong
Kong. In addition to the registered offices,
the various locations in China, Vietnam,
Bangladesh, India, Turkey, South Africa,
Brazil and El Salvador manage the collaboration with suppliers and also monitor the
production processes on site.
Processes are continuously improved in line
with the six core principles of partnership,
transparency, flexibility and speed, simplicity and effectiveness, thus satisfying the
aim of offering service at a high level for all
PUMA brands and creating a sustainable
production and supply chain. In order to further strengthen the link between customer
demands, product design and production,
product knowledge is moved closer to production, thus ensuring any developments in
the market can be adapted to more quickly.
82 | PUMA TRAINING

World Cat Ltd. optimizes the supply chain
with independent suppliers within its global
production network, from the purchase of
materials to production, right through to
the delivery of products. The aim is to offer an optimum service to the various PUMA
brands in order to meet and continue to improve global requirements for quality and
safety, along with environmental and social
aspects in production. At the same time,
continuous improvements are being made
in its role as purchasing agent with respect
to costs, flexibility and delivery reliability.
PUMA established a new sourcing structure
in 2015. The formation and global introduction of PUMA International Trading GmbH
(PIT) as a global trading company reorganized the supply chain. PUMA International
Trading GmbH, which has its headquarters
in Germany, makes purchases from thirdparty suppliers and sells to PUMA distribution subsidiaries. It also handles all the associated transactions. This new business
model ensures transparency within the supply chain and reduces the complexity of the
transactions. In addition, hedging was centralized at PIT.

F.1

Sourcing Markets 2015

Americas (4%)
Asia (90%)

Africa (1%)
Europe (5%)

The Sourcing Markets
During the financial year 2015, World Cat
Ltd. worked together with 189 suppliers in
32 countries. The strategic cooperation with
long-term partners was one of the key competitive advantages in 2015, ensuring stable
procurement in turbulent market conditions.
The geographic focus of the production

sites located in China as the primary sourcing country has shifted slightly to South East
Asia.
Asia remains the strongest sourcing region
overall with 90% of the total volume, followed by Europe with 5%, America with 4 %
and Africa with 1%.

As a result, the six most important sourcing countries (86% of the total volume) are
all located on the Asian continent. Vietnam
took over the lead from China in 2015 with
a total of 29%, an increase of 3 percentage
points from the previous year. China fol-

lowed at 26%, a reduction of 4 percentage
points from 2014. Cambodia was in third
place with 12%. Bangladesh, which focuses on apparel, moved up to fourth place at
9%. Indonesia, which focuses on footwear
production, produces 7 % of the total vol-

ume and is in fifth place. India is in sixth
place with 4 %.
Rising labor costs, political unrest and macroeconomic factors all had a negative impact
on sourcing markets in 2015. This therefore

increases the need to take into account the
risks these factors present when allocating
production. This is a crucial component of
our sourcing strategy in order to ensure the
secure and competitive sourcing of products.

World Cat’s Sourcing Regions

AMERICAS

EMEA

APAC

PUMA TRAINING | 83

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Development Emloyees

F.2

F.3

Employees (year-end)

12,000

5,412

Marketing/Retail

5,483

10,000

8,000

2,239

Sales

6,000

2,249

+0.5%

Product Management/ 358
– 4.4%
Merchandising 342

4,000

514

Forschung &
Entwicklung

2,000

0
2011

2012
Employees (annual average)

Number of employees
In 2015 the annual average number of employees worldwide was 10,988 compared to
10,830 in the previous year. The increase
was mainly related to the higher number of
the company’s own retail stores.
Overall personnel expenses in 2015 rose
by 13.7% from € 425.3 million to € 483.8 million and the average personnel expense per
employee was € 44.0 thousand compared
to € 39.3 thousand in the previous year.

84 | PUMA TRAINING

2013

2014

2015

Employees (year-end)

As of December 31, 2015, the number of
employees was 11,351, compared to 11,267
at the end of the previous year.
In the Marketing/Retail segment, the number of employees increased by 1.3 % to
5,483 employees. In Sales, the number of
employees increased slightly to 2,249. The
number of employees in Product Management/Merchandising decreased by 4.4 %
to 342, while the number of employees in
Research and Development increased by
2.6 % to 527. In the administrative and gen-

527

2014
2015

+2.6%

2,744

Research and
Development

2,750
0

+1.3%

500

+0.2%

1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,300 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,500

eral units, the number of employees rose
slightly to 2,750.

Talent Recruitment and Development
PUMA relies on the skills and qualifications
of its employees in order to ensure continued growth and market expertise.
We conduct targeted recruitment across
various channels, allowing us to reach a
broad range of potential employees with
extremely diverse experience and back-

grounds. We ensure the constant professional and personal development of our
staff by hiring qualified external talent and
training our internal employees. At the same
time, we take various measures, such as the
expansion of our global performance management system, which now integrates talent management and structured succession
planning in addition to performance assessment and target-setting, in an effort to retain
employees over the long term. We demonstrate that we view our employees as important and valuable assets and that we wish

Management System
to aid their development individually; this is
clearly reflected in our actions. The longterm retention of motivated and capable
employees is a core element of competitiveness today and ensures that we can perform
well as both a company and an employer in
our dynamic environment and can adapt to
changes in the market.
In our effort to provide adequate entry-level
and development opportunities to talented
individuals at all levels, in addition to the
range of different training and dual-track
(combined work-study) programs, we also
promote the systematic training of our professionals and managers. We continually
develop our PUMA training offers in order
to ensure that our employees have at all
times comprehensive and diverse options
to add to their qualifications, build on existing knowledge and acquire new skills. This
approach helps employees achieve their
personal goals and the company achieve
its goals. In addition to a training program
with a broad range of individual courses and
workshops, a large number of seminars is
offered with the aim of developing employees and managers over the longer term, giving them the opportunity to apply their newly
acquired knowledge in practice between the
individual modules and then to discuss this
with other seminar participants. For example, this year we continued our successful

International Leadership Program (ILP), an
internal program consisting of several modules.

Compensation
PUMA offers its employees a targeted and
competitive compensation system, which
consists of several components. In addition to a fixed base salary, the PUMA bonus
system, profit-sharing programs and various
social benefits and intangible benefits form
part of a performance-based compensation
system. We also offer long-term incentive
programs for senior management levels that
recognize the sustainable development and
performance of the business.

We use a variety of indicators to manage
our performance in relation to our top corporate goals. We have defined growth and
profitability as being key targets within
finance-related areas. Our focus therefore
is on improving sales and operating income.
At the same time, we aim to minimize working capital and improve free cash flow. Our
Group’s Planning and Management System has been designed to provide a variety
of instruments in order to assess current
business developments and derive future
strategy and investment decisions. This involves the continuous monitoring of key financial indicators within the PUMA Group
along with a monthly comparison with budget
targets. Any deviations from the targets are
analyzed in detail and appropriate countermeasures are taken in the event such deviations have a negative impact.

the average rates for the previous reporting
year but were instead translated at the corresponding average rates for the current year.
As a result, currency-adjusted figures are not
to be regarded as a substitute or as superior
financial indicators, but should instead always be regarded as additional information.

Changes in sales revenues are also influenced by currency exchange effects. This
is why we also state any changes in sales
in Euro, the reporting currency, adjusted for
currency exchange effects in order to provide
information that is relevant to the decisionmaking process when assessing the revenue
position. Currency-adjusted sales volumes
are used for comparison purposes and are
based on the values that would arise if the
foreign currencies included in the consolidated financial statements were not translated at

We use the indicator working capital in order to assess the financial position. Working capital is the difference between other
current assets - including in particular inventories and trade receivables - and current liabilities. Amounts that are received in
connection with financing activities are not
included in working capital.

We use the indicator free cash flow in order
to determine the change in cash and cash
equivalents after deducting all expenses
incurred to maintain or expand the organic
business of the PUMA Group. Free cash flow
is calculated from the cash flow from operating activities and investment activities. We
also use the indicator free cash flow before
acquisitions, which goes beyond free cash
flow and includes an adjustment for payments that are associated with investments
in companies.

Non-financial performance indicators are of
only minor importance at PUMA as control
variables.

PUMA TRAINING | 85

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

ECONOMIC REPORT
General Economic Conditions
The global economy weakened slightly in
2015 compared to the previous year. According to the winter forecast of the Kiel Institute
for the World Economy (IfW), the increase
in global gross domestic product (GDP) for
2015 will be 3.1%, the lowest growth since
the crisis year of 2009. Global production
rose by 3.4% in 2014.
The advanced economies continued to record a moderate performance overall, although there were significant differences between the individual countries and regions.
For example, the United States (+2.5 %)
and the United Kingdom (+2.4 %) again reported the strongest growth, while the Euro
zone saw only a slight increase of 1.5 % in
its gross domestic product, and unemployment remained high. After contracting in the
previous year (-0.1 %), the Japanese economy returned to growth with a slight increase
of 0.7 %.
In the emerging markets, the economic expansion has recently been weak. While in
86 | PUMA TRAINING

Sales
China, indicators point to a dampening of
growth (6.8 % versus 7.4 % in 2014), the recession worsened in Russia and Brazil. According to the IfW, the economies of these
two countries will contract by 3.8 % and
3.6 %, respectively, in 2015.
The sporting goods industry benefited in the
last financial year from rising disposable incomes and growing health consciousness
in the general population. The trend towards
more and more women being very active
in sports contributed to this positive performance. Looking at the distribution channels, online retailers, which posted dynamic
growth rates in the financial year 2015, made
a solid contribution.
By contrast, volatile currencies and, in particular, the strong US dollar, which made
products more expensive, had a dampening
effect on earnings in the industry.

Illustration of Sales Development in
2015 Compared to 2014 Outlook
In the 2014 Annual Report, we forecast a
currency-adjusted increase in consolidated
sales in the mid-single-digit percentage
range for the financial year 2015. This was
confirmed during the year and the actual figure reached the upper end of the forecast
for the full year 2015.
More details on sales development are provided below.

Consolidated Sales

F.4

Consolidated Sales by Product Segments

F.5
Mio. €

2015

3,500
3,000

2014

2,500
2,000

2013
1,500
1,000
2012
500
0

2011
2,000

2011
2,200

2,400

2,600

2,800

3,000

3,200

3,400
€ millions

2012
Accessories

2013
Apparel

2014

2015

Footwear

Consolidated Sales
PUMA increased consolidated sales in the financial year 2015 in euro, the reporting currency, by 14.0 % to € 3,387.4 million. Currency-adjusted sales increased by 6.5 %. This result
is at the upper end of the forecast of currency-adjusted sales growth in the mid-single-digit
percentage range.
Footwear, the most important segment for PUMA, recorded a particularly strong performance in 2015 and thus continued a sustained growth trend. Boosted by the categories
Running and Training as well as Team Sports, sales in the Euro, the reporting currency, increased by 17.4 % to € 1,506.1 million. Currency-adjusted sales growth was 9.2 %. This segment’s share in consolidated sales rose from 43.2% in 2014 to 44.5 % in the reporting year.

strong demand in America. Part of the growth in sales in America is linked to PUMA Kids
Apparel North America LLC. The currency-adjusted increase in sales was 6.0 %. This segment accounted for 36.7 % of consolidated sales (previous year: 37.1%).
The significant growth in the Footwear and Apparel segments is a testament to the success
of the Forever Faster strategy of increasing focus on the sports performance area.
With currency-adjusted growth of 1.7 %, sales in the Accessories segment were slightly
above the level of the previous year. In the reporting currency, sales were € 636.4 million,
which corresponds to an increase of 8.5 %. The share of consolidated sales decreased to
18.8 % (previous year: 19.7 %).

In the Apparel segment, sales in the reporting currency improved by 12.9 % to € 1,244.8
million over an already high comparable basis in the previous year due in large part to
PUMA TRAINING | 87

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Retail Sales

F.6

License Sales / Royalty and Commission Income in %

F.7

Mio. €

%

Mio. €

%

700

21

400

16

600

18

500

15

300

12

400

12
200

8

300

9

200

6

100

4

100

3

0

0

0

0

2011

2012
Retail sales

2013

2014

2015

in % of consolidated sales

2011

2012
License sales

2013

2014

2015

Royalty and commission income in %

Retail businesses
PUMA’s own retail businesses include PUMA stores, factory outlets and online sales, which
guarantee local availability and a controlled sell-off of PUMA products, as well as the presentation of the PUMA brand within appropriate settings.

We increased the offerings on PUMA’s e-commerce website in order to improve and expand our online presence. For example, exclusive products from the PUMA Select collection have also been available since May.

Sales from retail activities improved by a currency-adjusted 9.3% to € 726.2 million in financial year 2015. The corresponds to a 21.4% share of overall sales (previous year: 20.8%).
The sales growth was achieved both on a comparable area basis and through the targeted
expansion of the portfolio of the company’s own retail stores. In addition to opening additional retail stores, the optimization of the portfolio included the introduction of new store
designs in selected locations. This makes it possible to present PUMA products and related
technologies in an even more attractive environment and strengthens PUMA’s position as a
sports brand. All new and updated stores recorded increased sales in the financial year and
an increased share of revenues from footwear.

Licensing business

88 | PUMA TRAINING

For various product segments, such as fragrances, eyewear, and watches, PUMA issues
licenses authorizing independent partners to design, develop and sell these products. Revenue from license agreements also includes some sales licenses for various markets.
License sales fell by a currency-adjusted 48.2% in 2015 due to the expiration of several
licensing agreements at the end of 2014. In the reporting currency, the Euro, sales fell by
45.3% to around € 109.0 million. Of this amount, € 16.5 million or 15.1% was attributable to
licensing and commission income, compared to € 19.4 million (9.7%) in the previous year.

T.1

Income Statement
2015

Sales

2014

€ million

%

€ million

%

+/–%

3,387.4

100.0%

2,972

100.0%

14.0%

Cost of sales

-1,847.2

-54.5%

-1,586.7

-53.4%

16.4%

Gross profit

1,540.2

45.5%

1,385.4

46.6%

11.2%

16.5

0.5%

19.4

0.7%

-14.8%

-1,460.5

-43.1%

-1,276.8

-43.0%

14.4%

Operating income (EBIT)

96.3

2.8%

128.0

4.3%

-24.8%

Financial result / Income from associated companies

-11.2

-0.3%

-6.2

-0.2%

80.5%

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

85.0

2.5%

121.8

4.1%

-30.2%

-23.3

-0.7%

-37.0

-1.2%

-36.8%

Royalty and commission income
Other operating income and expenses

Taxes on income
Tax rate
Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests
Net earnings

-30.4%

-27.5%
-24.6

0.7%

-20.8

-0.7%

18.4%

37.1

1.1%

64.1

2.2%

-42.1%

Weighted average shares outstanding (million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted (million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

Earnings per share in €

2.48

4.29

-42.1%

Earnings per share, diluted in €

2.48

4.29

-42.1%

Results of Operations
Illustration of Earnings Development in 2015 Compared to 2014
In the outlook in the 2014 Annual Report, PUMA forecasted a slight increase in gross profit
margin for 2015 based on the assumption of fewer discounts and a favorable profit mix.
PUMA forecasted a slight increase over 2014 in both operating income (EBIT) and net
earnings.

change rate effects. While the sales forecast was maintained, PUMA expected a decline
in the gross profit margin within a range of 100 to 150 basis points from the previous year
(2014: 46.6%). Currency-adjusted operating income (EBIT) was expected to be between
€ 80 million and € 100 million (previous year: € 128.0 million). Expectations for net income
were corrected in line with the adjustment to operating income.

Due to the continued negative currency effects, the forecast had to be revised downwards
in May 2015, as the countermeasures taken were not able to fully offset the negative ex-

The adjusted forecasts were confirmed during the year and were fully met for the full year
2015.
PUMA TRAINING | 89

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Gross Profit/Gross Profit Margin

F.8

F.9

€ million

%

%

1,600

55

45

1,200

50

Operating Expenses as a % of Consolidated Sales

40
800

45

400

40

0

35

35

2011

2012
Gross profit

2013

2014

2015

30
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Gross profit margin

Gross Profit Margin

Other Operating Income and Expenses

In the financial year 2015, gross profit increased by 11.2% from € 1,385.4 million to
€ 1,540.2 million.

Strict cost controls remained a high priority for PUMA in the financial year 2015.

The gross profit margin declined by 110 basis points from 46.6% to 45.5%, due mainly to
unfavorable exchange rate effects. In addition to the strong US dollar, the development of
other key currencies also had a negative effect.

Excluded from these savings measures were investments in the IT infrastructure and expenses for increased marketing activities with the aim of repositioning PUMA as the fastest
brand in the world. These measures included media campaigns and the sponsorship of
global PUMA brand ambassadors.

The decline in the margin was reflected in all product segments. The gross profit margin
the Footwear segment fell from 42.6 % in the previous year to 41.2%. In Apparel, a decline
from 49.5 % to 49.3 % was recorded. The gross profit margin for Accessories was 48.0 %,
compared with 50.0 % in 2014.

The operation and opening of new retail stores contributed to the increase in other operating income and expenses. In addition, unfavorable exchange rate effects had a negative
impact on other operating income and expenses. In the financial year 2015, they increased
by 14.4 % from € 1,276.8 million to € 1,460.5 million.

90 | PUMA TRAINING

As a percentage of sales, the expense ratio stood at 43.1%, virtually unchanged from the
previous year.
In terms of sales expenditure, expenditure for marketing/retail purposes increased significantly by 16.3% from € 599.7 million to € 697.6 million. This development is primarily related
to the systematic continuation of the Forever Faster brand campaign and the increase in
the number of the company’s own retail stores. As the increase is slightly higher in proportion to the sales development, the expense ratio increased marginally to 20.6% (previous
year: 20.2%). Other sales and distribution expenses stood at € 442.8 million, an increase
of 11.3 %. The expense ratio decreased from 13.4% to 13.1%.
Expenditures for product management and merchandising increased by 7.8% to € 37.5
million. The expense ratio remained stable at 1.1 % (previous year: 1.2 %). Expenditures
for research and development increased by 22.7 % to € 56.7 million and the corresponding
expense ratio was 1.7 % (previous year: 1.6 %).
Other operating income increased by 38.3 % and totaled € 23.9 million at the end of the
financial year (previous year: € 17.3 million). Administrative and general expenses rose
slightly by 16 % to € 249.8 million. The expense ratio for administrative and general expenses was slightly above the previous year’s level at 7.4 % (previous year: 7.2 %).
Depreciation/amortization totaling € 57.5 million (previous year: € 50.5 million) is included
under the respective cost items. This represents a 14.0 % increase in depreciation/amortization compared to the previous year.

Operating Income (EBIT)

Operational Result – EBIT

F.10
€ million

%

400

20

300

15

200

10

100

5

0

0
2011

2012
Operating Profit

2013

2014

as a % of sales

Borrowing also increased interest expenses, which totaled € 14.4 million (previous year:
€ 9.8 million). Income from the associated company Wilderness Holdings Ltd, which is
also included in the financial result, totaled € 1.0 million in financial year 2015 (previous
year: €1.3 million).

The operating income in the financial year 2015 was € 96.3 million (-24.8 % compared
to the previous year) and was significantly impacted by negative effects from ongoing
exchange rate fluctuations. This result is at the upper end of the adjusted forecast of € 80
million to € 100 million.

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

The operating margin declined accordingly from 4.3 % to 2.8 %.

Net Earnings Attributable to Non-controlling Interests

Financial Result
The financial result changed from € -6.2 million to € -11.2 million. Expenses for currency
conversion differences had a negative impact, resulting in increased financial expenses.

2015

In the financial year 2015, PUMA generated earnings before taxes of € 85.0 million, a decline of 30.2 % from the previous year (€ 121.8 million). The tax expense was € 23.3 million
(€ 37.0 million), resulting in a tax rate of 27.5 % (30.4 %).

Income attributable to non-controlling interests in PUMA Wheat, PUMA Janed and PUMA
Kids Apparel North America increased by 18.4 % to € 24.6 million (previous year: € 20.8
million). PUMA Wheat and PUMA Janed distribute accessories in the American market,
PUMA Kids Apparel concentrates on children’s clothing.
PUMA TRAINING | 91

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Net Earnings
Group earnings in 2015 stood at € 37.1 million and were thus in line with the expectations
of the adjusted forecast. The decline was due mainly to the continued unfavorable developments in exchange rates and their negative impact on the gross profit margin. As a
consequence, both earnings per share and diluted earnings per share fell to € 2.48 (previous year: € 4.29).

Dividends
The Managing Directors will recommend to the Administrative Board at the Annual
General Meeting on May 4, 2016 that a dividend of € 0.50 per share be distributed from
PUMA SE’s retained earnings for financial year 2015 (previous year: € 0.50). As a percentage of consolidated sales, the payout ratio amounts to 20.2%, compared to 11.7% in the
previous year. The dividends will be distributed in the days following the Annual General
Meeting at which the resolution on the distribution is adopted.

92 | PUMA TRAINING

F.11

Earnings/Dividend per Share

in €

in €

20,00

2,50

16,00

2,00

12,00

1,50

8,00

1,00

4,00

0,50

0,00

0,00
2011

2012
Earnings per share

2013

2014

Dividend per share

2015

F.12

EMEA Sales

F.13

€ million

€ million

1,400

1,400

1,200

1,200

1,000

1,000

800

800

600

600

400

400

200

200

0

0
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Americas Sales

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Regional Development
The currency-adjusted growth in consolidated sales of 6.5% in 2015 is attributable to the
positive trend in all regions.
In the EMEA region, sales in the reporting currency, the Euro, improved by 4.3% to
€1,258.2 million. The main drivers were the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Poland.
Other Eastern European countries, the Middle East and Africa also recorded good performances. The EMEA region achieved currency-adjusted growth of 3.6 %. This represented
37.1% of consolidated sales, a decline from the share in the previous year of 40.6 %.
In the segments, the Footwear product category recorded a currency-adjusted increase in
sales of 5.8% after seeing a decline in 2014. Currency-adjusted apparel sales rose slightly,
by 0.6%. Currency-adjusted accessories sales were up by 4.5 %.

The gross profit margin in the EMEA region declined from 49.6% in the previous year to
46.9 % due to unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations.

In the America region PUMA achieved particularly dynamic growth, with both North and
South America contributing to this result. In the reporting currency, the Euro, sales rose by
22.5 % to €1,310.8 million. The currency-adjusted sales increase was 8.8 %. The America
region accounted for 38.7% of consolidated sales (previous year: 36.0 %).
Looking at the product categories, both Footwear (currency-adjusted +8.5 % over the previous year) and Apparel (+13.2 %) turned in very strong performances. In Accessories, a
currency-adjusted sales increase of 3.3 % was achieved. The gross profit margin in the
America region was 41.8 % compared to 42.9 % in 2014.

PUMA TRAINING | 93

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

F.14

Asia/Pacific Sales

€ million
1.000

800

600

400

200

0
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Currency-adjusted sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 7.6% in the reporting year.
China and India, which achieved double-digit growth rates, made the biggest contributions
to this performance. In Japan, the continued difficult macroeconomic environment made it
difficult to increase sales. Sales both here and in Korea were at approximately the same
level as the previous year. Currency-adjusted sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 17.5 %
to € 818.4 million in the reporting currency, the Euro. This represented 24.2% of consolidated sales compared to 23.4% in 2014.
Broken down by product, Footwear was the biggest growth-driver with currency-adjusted
sales improving by 16.0%. In Apparel, currency-adjusted sales increased by 5.5%, while
Accessories recorded a decline of 10.7%, due mainly to lower sales in Japan.
The gross profit margin in the Asia/Pacific region improved from 47.1% in 2014 to 49.0 % in
the reporting year.

94 | PUMA TRAINING

Net Assets and Financial Position
T.2

Balance Sheet
31.12.2015

31.12.2014

€ million

%

€ million

%

+/–%

Cash and cash equivalents

338.8

12.9%

401.5

15.7%

-15.6%

Inventories

657.0

25.1%

571.5

22.4%

15.0%

Trade receivables

483.1

18.4%

449.2

17.6%

7.6%

Other current assets (Working Capital)

154.9

5.9%

202.4

7.9%

-23.4%

51.0

1.9%

58.0

2.3%

-12.1%

1,684.8

64.3%

1,682.5

66.0%

0.1%

Other current assets
Current assets
Deferred taxes

219.8

8.4%

178.8

7.0%

22.9%

Other non-current assets

715.7

27.3%

688.7

27.0%

3.9%

Non-current assets

935.5

35.7%

867.5

34.0%

7.8%

2,620.3

100.0%

2,549.9

100.0%

2.8%

Total assets
Current financial liabilities

14.0

0.5%

19.8

0.8%

-29.5%

Trade liabilities

519.7

19.8%

515.2

20.2%

0.9%

Other current liabilities (Working Capital)

242.4

9.3%

252.1

9.9%

-3.8%

Other current liabilities

103.9

4.0%

35.5

1.4%

192.6%

Current liabilities

880.0

33.6%

822.6

32.3%

7.0%

Deferred taxes

64.2

2.5%

54.6

2.1%

17.7%

Pension provisions

23.8

0.9%

26.0

1.0%

-8.6%

Other non-current liabilities

32.9

1.3%

28.4

1.1%

15.9%

121.0

4.6%

109.0

4.3%

11.0%

Shareholders' equity

1,619.3

61.8%

1,618.3

63.5%

0.1%

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

2,620.3

100.0%

2,549.9

100.0%

2.8%

Non-current liabilities

Working Capital
- in % of consolidated sales

532.9

455.7

15.7%

15.3%

16.9%

PUMA TRAINING | 95

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Total Assets/Equity Ratio

F.15

Working Capital

F.16

€ million

%

3,000

70

2,500

65

2,000

60

1,500

€ million

%

700

21

600

18

500

15

400

12

300

9

200

6

55

1,000

50

500

45

100

3

0

40

0

0

2011

2012
Total assets

2013

2014

2015

Equity ratio in %

2011

2012
Working capital

2013

2014

2015

as a % of consolidated sales

Equity Ratio
PUMA continues to have an extremely solid capital base. As of December 31, 2015 total
assets rose slightly by 2.8% from € 2,549.9 million to € 2,620.3 million. As equity remained
virtually constant at € 1,619.3 million (previous year: € 1,618.3 million), the equity ratio fell
from 63.5% to 61.8%.

Working Capital
The growth in consolidated sales was accompanied by an increase in working capital by
16.9% to € 532.9 million (previous year: € 455.7 million). In order to ensure product availability even when demand is strong and to meet the increased need for products due to
our new retail stores, inventories increased by 15.0% to € 657.0 million (€ 571.5 million). At
€ 483.1 million, trade receivables were 7.6% above the previous year’s level; this rise was a
96 | PUMA TRAINING

result of the increase in sales in the fourth quarter of 2015. Trade payables increased slightly
by 0.9% and totaled € 519.7 million on December 31, 2015 (€ 515.2 million).

Other Assets and Other Liabilities
Other current assets, which include the market value of derivative financial instruments,
decreased compared to the previous year by 12.1% to € 51.0 million. Other non-current assets, consisting mainly of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, rose 3.9 %
to € 715.7 million due to investments in property, plant and equipment. Compared to the
previous year, other current liabilities increased from € 35.5 million to € 103.9 million. This
increase was mainly the result of short term borrowings as part of financing activities at
companies included in the Kering Group.

Cash Flow

Gross Cash Flow

F.17
T.3

Cash Flow Statement

€ million
500

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

+/–%

Earnings before tax (EBT)

85.0

121.8

-30.2%

Financial result and non cash effected expenses
and income

49.4

50.4

-1.9%

Gross cash flow

300
134.5

172.2

-21.9%

-125.1

16.8

-846.7%

Taxes, interest and dividend payments

-46.5

-62.6

-25.6%

Net cash used in / from operating activities

-37.1

126.4

-129.4%

-0.5

-23.8

-97.8%

-79.0

-72.6

8.8%

17.8

9.4

89.5%

Net cash used in investing activities

-61.7

-87.0

-29.1%

Free cash flow

-98.9

39.3

-351.3%

Free cash flow (before acquisitions)

-98.3

63.1

-255.7%

-2.9%

2.1%

28.9

-36.2

-180.0%

7.3

8.2

-11.2%

Change in cash and cash equivalents

-62.7

11.4

-650.4%

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the
financial year

401.5

390.1

2.9%

Cash and cash equivalents at year-end

338.8

401.5

-15.6%

Change in current assets, net

Payment for acquisition of shareholdings
Payment for investing in fixed assets
Other investing activities

- in % of consolidated sales
Net cash from / used in financing activities
Effect on exchange rates on cash

400

200

100

0
2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Due to the drop in pre-tax profit compared to the previous year, gross cash flow declined to
€ 134.5 million (previous year: € 172.2 million). Non-cash expenses and income remained
stable compared to the previous year at € 49.4 million.
In 2015, the cash outflow from operating activities was € 37.1 million (previous year: cash
inflow of € 126.4 million). This development was attributable mainly to changes in net current
assets* which totaled € -125.1 million due to the increase in working capital compared to
2014. By contrast, the cash outflow from tax, interest and dividend payments declined from
€ 62.6 million to € 46.5 million.
The cash outflow from investing activities declined from € 87.0 million to € 61.7 million in
the reporting year. The cash outflow was particularly high in the previous year due to the
acquisition of shares in Borussia Dortmund. Investments in fixed assets in financial year
2015 primarily relate to investments in retail, IT and other fixed assets. These investments
increased from € 72.6 million in the previous year to € 79.0 million in 2015.

PUMA TRAINING | 97

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

The free cash flow before acquisitions is the balance of the cash inflows and outflows from
current operating and investing activities. Due to the decline in pre-tax profit and the higher
working capital, free cash flow before acquisitions fell from € 63.1 million in 2014 to € -98.3
million. As a percentage of consolidated sales, free cash flow before acquisitions amounted
to -2.9 % compared to 2.1 % in the previous year.
The cash flow from financing activities in the financial year 2015 mainly consists of € 7.5
million in dividend payments to shareholders of PUMA SE (previous year: € 7.5 million), dividend payments to non-controlling interests, and the entering into and repayment of financial
liabilities. As part of its financing activities, PUMA incurred borrowings from its majority
shareholder Kering in 2015. This resulted in an overall cash inflow from financing activities
of € 28.9 million versus cash outflows of € 36.2 million in 2014.
As of December 31, 2015, PUMA had cash and cash equivalents of € 338.8 million, a decline of 15.6 % compared to the previous year (€ 401.5 million). The PUMA Group also had
credit facilities totaling € 401.7 million as of December 31, 2015 (previous year: € 343.2
million). Unutilized credit lines totaled € 306.0 million on the reporting date, compared to
€ 324.4 million the previous year.

* Net working capital includes normal working capital line items plus current assets and
liabilities which are not normally part of the working capital calculation.
98 | PUMA TRAINING

COMPENSATION REPORT
The Managing Directors
The compensation of the Managing Directors, which is determined by the Administrative Board, consists of non-performance-based and performance-based
components. The non-performance-based
components consist of a fixed salary and
non-cash compensation, whereas the performance-based components consist of
bonuses and components with a long-term
incentive effect. Along with job assignments
and performance of each individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the
total remuneration are the economic situation, long-term strategic planning and related targets, the long-term durability of targeted results and the Company’s long-term
prospects.
A fixed salary is paid out monthly as nonperformance-based basic compensation.
In addition, the Managing Directors receive
non-cash compensation, such as company
cars, pension contributions and insurance
premiums. In principle, these benefits are
granted to all Managing Directors in an
equal manner and are included in the nonperformance-based compensation.

The bonus component of performancerelated compensation is mainly based on
the PUMA Group’s operating income (EBIT)
and free cash flow and is staggered according to the degree to which targets are met. In
addition, qualitative individual goals are set.
The parties also agree on an upper limit.

term performance of PUMA SE’s share and
30 % will be based on the medium-term performance of Kering SA’s share in relation to
benchmark companies. Further information
on this program can be found in Section 19
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The previous performance-based compensation component with a long-term incentive
effect (stock appreciation rights) as part of
a stock option plan was not granted beyond
the 2012 financial year. The existing options
can be exercised until May 2017 if the exercise criteria are met. Details on the parameters used for the respective programs are
provided in Section 19 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The fixed compensation for the three Managing Directors amounted to € 1.9 million
(previous year: € 2.5 million for the five
Managing Directors) in the financial year
and variable bonuses came to € 1.5 million (previous year: € 2.4 million). Non-cash
compensation totaled € 0.1 million (previous
year: € 0.2 million).

Pro-rata provisions totaling € 1.9 million
(€ 0.7 million) were set up for the compensation program with long-term incentives
for Managing Directors for the financial
year 2015 (from the years 2013, 2014 and
2015), based on the commitments made
in their employment contracts. Under the
performance-based program, 70% of the
compensation will be based on the medium-

The Managing Directors receive pension
benefits, for which the Company took out a
pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital that is already
financed through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed to be vested. During the financial year, € 0.4 million
was allocated for Managing Directors (previous year: € 0.5 million). The present value
of the pension benefits granted to Managing
Directors in the amount of € 1.7 million as

of December 31, 2015 (previous year: € 1.3
million) was offset against the pledged asset value of the pension liability insurance
policy, which was of an equal amount.
Pension obligations to former members of
the Board of Management, their widows and
Managing Directors amounted to € 13.3 million (previous year: € 12.5 million) and are
accordingly recognized as liabilities under
pension provisions, unless they are offset
against asset values of an equal amount.
Pensions paid totaled € 0.2 million (previous
year: € 0.2 million).
In 2015, a long-term incentive program,
Game Changer 2018, was introduced for
senior management and strategically important employees that will allow this group
of employees to participate in PUMA SE’s
earnings over the medium term. € 1.0 million has been set aside for this program. An
additional € 0.8 million (previous year € 0.9
million) was set aside for the predecessor
program Game Changer 2017 (Tranche 2).
Further information on this program can be
found in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PUMA TRAINING | 99

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Administrative Board
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board has at least
three members; it currently consists of nine
members. The compensation of the Administrative Board is comprised of a fixed and
a performance-based component. The total
fixed compensation amounted to € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative
Board receives fixed annual compensation
in the amount of € 25,000. Fixed compensation is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of € 25,000 for the Chairman
of the Administrative Board, € 12,500 for the
Vice Chairman of the Administrative Board,
€ 10,000 for the Chairman of a committee
(with the exception of the Nominating Committee) and € 5,000 for each member of a
committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee).
In addition, each Administrative Board
member receives performance-based compensation equal to € 20.00 for each € 0.01
by which the earnings per share figure ex100 | PUMA TRAINING

ceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per
share. The performance-based compensation amounts to a maximum of € 10,000 per
year. The Chairman of the Administrative
Board receives twice this amount (maximum
€ 20,000) and the Vice Chairman receives
one and a half times this amount (maximum
€ 15,000) in compensation. Since earnings
per share are below the minimum amount
in the financial year, no performance-based
compensation will be paid.

RISK AND OPPORTUNITY
MANAGEMENT
Risk and Opportunity Categories
Due to the global nature of its business
activities, PUMA is constantly exposed to
risks that must be monitored and limited.
But where there are risks there are also opportunities, and it is important to identify,
evaluate and continually monitor these by
implementing effective risk and opportunity
management policies.

Director. The RCC Chairman reports the
results from the RCC meetings to the other Managing Directors as well as to the
Administrative Board. The RCC also regularly carries out a documented risk assessment as a critical review of the existing risk
portfolio and to identify any possible changes.

The risk-management guidelines and organization at PUMA provide for methodical and systematic procedures. The direct
responsibility for identifying and monitoring
risks is assigned to functional employees
or employees responsible for implementing
processes. They provide information about
major changes in the risk portfolio in the
form of periodic and ad-hoc reports.

PUMA’s Group-wide internal audits and its
comprehensive reporting and controlling
system are also essential components of
its risk management approach. PUMA’s reporting and controlling system is based on
monthly financial reporting as well as the
review and plausibility reports on reported
information issued by Controlling.

To do so, risk managers use a Group-wide
uniform risk management system. This
makes it possible to quickly and flexibly
identify risks and forward them to the Risk
& Compliance Committee (hereinafter referred to as “RCC”). The RCC consists of
a fixed group of managing executives from
various corporate divisions. The position
of RCC Chairman is filled by a Managing

Managers analyze opportunities and risks
in annual planning discussions around the
world, setting targets and defining courses
of action based on the results. The comprehensive reporting system continuously monitors and generates reports on compliance
with the set targets. This enables PUMA to
identify any deviations or negative developments promptly and to initiate any necessary countermeasures at an early stage.

Macroeconomic Developments
As an international company, PUMA is exposed to global macroeconomic developments. Economic developments in key
sales markets can have a direct impact on
consumer behavior and thus influence both
sales and earnings. For example, political
crises, exchange rate fluctuations, changes
to the legal framework and social developments may have an effect on consumer behavior.
PUMA counters these risks through the geographic diversification of its operations and
a balanced product portfolio that leaves its
own creative mark intended to set the Company apart from the competition in a positive
manner.

Brand Image
Brand image and brand heat are extremely
important for PUMA, as consumer behavior
can have a negative effect on the brand as
well as a positive one.
PUMA came up with a new mission statement in 2013 in order to ensure PUMA’s
sporting roots are emphasized even further
PUMA TRAINING | 101

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

and to sharpen its perception as a sports
brand. “To be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world”. The new brand promise “Forever
Faster” and the associated long-term brand
campaign was launched in August 2014 with
PUMA’s top athletes like Usain Bolt, Mario
Balotelli, Rickie Fowler and Lexie Thompson. The advertising campaign was continued in 2015 with the slogan “What are you
training for?”. PUMA’s most famous brand
ambassadors, such as Usain Bolt, Rihanna,
Sergio Agüero and Arsenal FC, again took
part in the campaign. Rihanna was brought
on board not just as a brand ambassador, but
also as a creative director. This will improve
PUMA’s product offering for women and result in a more consumer-focused approach.

Counterfeit Products
Counterfeit products can cause considerable damage to consumer confidence in
the brand and can devalue PUMA’s brand
image. For this reason, PUMA has made
fighting brand piracy a top priority. PUMA’s
intellectual property team does more than
just protect a strong global intellectual property portfolio of trademarks, designs and
patents. PUMA also works closely with cus102 | PUMA TRAINING

toms and other law-enforcement authorities
around the world and provides input regarding the implementation of effective laws to
protect intellectual property.

Reporting in the Media
A negative media report about PUMA, such
as a product recall, infringement of laws, or
internal or external requirements, can also do
significant damage to the brand and ultimately result in the loss of sales and profit, regardless of whether these events actually happened or were just assumed by the media.
PUMA protects itself against this risk through
careful public relations work, which is managed from the Group’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany. In addition, PUMA
regularly seeks an open dialog with key external stakeholders (e.g. NGOs) and this has
been institutionalized in the “Talks at Banz”,
which have been held annually since 2003.

Personnel Department
Creative potential and the commitment and
performance of employees are important
pillars for the success of any business and
the source of significant opportunities as
well. PUMA encourages independent think-

ing and acting, which is key in an open corporate culture with a flat hierarchy.
PUMA’s human resources strategy seeks
to ensure the long-term sustainability of this
successful philosophy. To achieve this goal,
a control process is in place to detect and
assess human-resource risks. Accordingly,
special attention has been paid to managing talent, identifying key positions and highpotential individuals, and optimizing talent
placement and succession planning. PUMA
has instituted additional national and global
regulations and guidelines to ensure compliance with legal provisions.

customs duties, trade restrictions, natural
disasters and political instability, as well as
the international threat of terrorism. Risks
may also result from an overdependence on
individual manufacturers.
The portfolio is regularly reviewed and adjusted to avoid creating a dependence on
individual suppliers and sourcing markets.
In order to ensure that the necessary future
production capacity will be available, framework agreements are generally concluded
for extended periods.

PUMA will continue to make targeted investments in the human-resource needs of particular functions or regions in order to meet the
future requirement of its corporate strategy.

There is also the risk of a breach of ILO (International Labor Organization) core labor
standards by our suppliers. The core task
of the PUMA Sustainability Team is thus to
verify compliance with the applicable standards in regular audits of suppliers.

Sourcing Department

Product and Market Environment

Most products are produced in the emerging markets of Asia. Production in these
countries can be associated with substantial
risks for PUMA. For instance, certain risks
may result from factors such as fluctuations
in exchange rates, changes in taxes and

Recognizing and taking advantage of relevant consumer trends early on is key to
countering the risk posed by market-specific
product influences, in particular the risk of
substitutability in the competitive sport and
lifestyle market. Only those companies that

identify these trends at an early stage will be
able to gain an edge over their competitors.
PUMA’s targeted investments in product
design and development ensures that the
characteristic PUMA design of the entire
product range is consistent with the overall
brand strategy (Forever Faster), thereby creating a unique level of brand recognition.

Retail
PUMA makes use of various distribution
channels in order to minimize dependence
on any single channel. The expansion of the
Company’s own retail stores is also intended
to ensure that PUMA products are presented in an exclusive brand environment preferred by PUMA.
Distribution through its own retail stores
is linked to various risks for PUMA, including investments in expansion and equipping
stores, higher fixed costs compared to distribution through wholesalers as well as lease
agreements with long-term lease obligations,
all of which can have a negative impact on
profitability if business declines. On the other
hand, extending the value chain can deliver
higher gross margins and provide better

control over distribution. In addition, PUMAowned retail stores can deliver PUMA brand
experience directly to the end customer.

and setup in 2015. The optimization of the IT
infrastructure was a key project.

To avoid risks and take advantage of opportunities, PUMA performs in-depth location
and profitability analyses before making investment decisions. The Company’s strong
controlling and key performance indicator
system enables it to detect negative trends
early on and take the countermeasures required to manage individual stores accordingly.

As an international company, PUMA is subject to currency risks resulting from the disparity between the respective amounts of
currency used on the purchasing and sales
sides and from exchange-rate fluctuations.

Organizational Challenges
The organizational structure of PUMA with
the Group’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach, a central sourcing organization in
Hong Kong and local distribution companies
around the world, gives the Group a global
orientation. This results in a risk for PUMA
that the flow of goods and information are
not sufficiently supported by modern infrastructure and information technology (IT).
For this reason, business processes must
be continually optimized and adapted.
To accomplish this objective, PUMA continued to optimize its organizational structure

Currency Risks

PUMA’s biggest procurement market is
Asia, where most payments are settled in
USD, while sales of the PUMA Group are
mostly invoiced in other currencies. PUMA
manages currency risk in accordance with
internal guidelines. Currency forward contracts are used to hedge existing and future
financial liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies.
To hedge signed or pending contracts
against currency risk, PUMA only concludes
currency forward contracts on customary
market terms with reputable international
financial institutions and Kering Finance
SNC. As of the end of 2015, the net requirements for the 2016 planning period were adequately hedged against currency effects.

Foreign exchange risks may also arise from
intra-group loans granted for financing purposes. Currency swaps and currency forward
transactions are used to hedge currency risks
when converting intra-group loans denominated in foreign currencies into the functional
currencies of the Group companies.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7
requires sensitivity analyses that show the
effects of hypothetical changes in relevant
risk variables on earnings and equity. The
periodic effects are determined by relating
the hypothetical changes caused by the risk
variables to the balance of the financial instruments held as of the balance sheet date.
The underlying assumption is that the balance as of the balance sheet date is representative for the entire year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on
account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and is monetary in nature.
Differences resulting from the conversion
of the individual financial statements to the
Group currency are not taken into account.
All non-functional currencies in which PUMA
employs financial instruments are generally
PUMA TRAINING | 103

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on
the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, receivables, interest-bearing debt, liabilities from
finance leases, non-interest-bearing liabilities) are either denominated directly in the
functional currency or transferred into the
functional currency through the use of currency forward contracts.
Currency forward contracts used to hedge
against payment fluctuations caused by exchange rates are part of an effective cashflow hedging relationship pursuant to IAS
39. Changes in the exchange rate of the
currencies underlying these contracts have
an effect on the hedge reserve in equity and
the fair value of these hedging contracts.
If, as of December 31, 2015, the USD had
appreciated (devalued) against all other currencies by 10%, the hedge reserve in equity
and the fair value of the hedging contracts
would have been € 105.5 million higher
(lower) (December 31, 2014: € 59.0 million
higher (lower)).
104 | PUMA TRAINING

Interest-Rate Risks
At PUMA, changes in interest rates do not
have a significant impact on interest rate
sensitivity and therefore do not require the
use of interest rate hedging instruments.

Counterparty Risks
Because of its business activities, PUMA is
exposed to default risk that is managed by
continuously monitoring outstanding receivables and recognizing impairment losses,
where appropriate.
The default risk is limited by credit insurance
and the maximum default risk is reflected by
the carrying amounts of the financial assets
recognized on the balance sheet.

Liquidity Risk
A liquidity reserve in the form of cash or
cash equivalents as well as confirmed
credit lines is maintained in order to ensure the Company’s solvency at all times,
its financial flexibility and the presence of
a strategic liquidity buffer. Confirmed credit
lines are made available until further notice
or with a maturity period of less than one
year.

PUMA continually analyzes short-term
capital requirements through rolling cash
flow planning at the level of the individual
companies in coordination with the central
Treasury. Thanks to the adequate liquidity
of the PUMA Group and a central financing approach, any capital requirements are
covered by internal financing, where and
whenever possible. The central Treasury
conducts medium-term liquidity planning as
part of its budget process.

embezzlement and corruption, as well as
deliberate misrepresentations in financial
reporting, may lead to significant monetary
and reputational damage. PUMA therefore
makes use of various tools to manage these
risks. They include an integrated compliance
management system, the internal control
system, Group controlling and the internal
audit department. The employees of PUMA
also have access to an integrity hotline for
reporting unethical behavior.

Legal Risks

Summary

As an international company, the PUMA
Group is exposed to various legal risks.
These include contractual risks or risks that
a third party could assert claims and litigation for infringement of its trademark rights,
patent rights or other rights. The continuous
monitoring of our contractual obligations
and the integration of internal and external
legal experts in contractual matters should
ensure that any legal risks are avoided.
.

PUMA’s risk management system allows the
Company to fulfill the legal requirements pertaining to corporate control and transparency.
The Management believes that, in an overall
evaluation of the Company’s risk situation, risk
is limited and manageable and poses no threat
to the continued viability of the PUMA Group.

Compliance Risks

PUMA is exposed to the risk that employees violate laws, directives and company
standards (compliance violations). These
risks, such as theft, fraud, breach of trust,

Main Features of the Internal Control and Risk Management
System as it relates to the Group’s Accounting Process

PUMA SE’s Managing Directors are responsible for the preparation and accuracy
of the Consolidated Financial Statements
and the Group Management Report. The
Consolidated Financial Statements were
prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards that
apply in the EU, the requirements of the
German Commercial Code (HGB) and the
German SE Implementation Act (SEAG).
Certain disclosures and amounts are based
on current estimates by the Managing Directors.
The Company’s Managing Directors are
responsible for maintaining and regularly
monitoring a suitable internal control and
risk management system covering the consolidated financial statements and the disclosures in the Group management report.

This control and risk management system is
designed to ensure the compliance and reliability of the internal and external accounting records, the presentation and accuracy
of the consolidated financial statements,
and the Group management report and the
disclosures contained therein. It is based
on a series of process-integrated monitoring steps and encompasses the measures
necessary to accomplish these, internal
instructions, organizational and authorization guidelines, the PUMA Code of Ethics,
a clear separation of functions within the
Group and the dual-control principle. The
adequacy and operating effectiveness of
these measures are regularly reviewed in
internal audits.
For monthly financial reporting and consolidation, PUMA has a Group-wide report-

ing and controlling system that allows it to
detect deviations from projected figures
and accounting irregularities regularly and
promptly and, where necessary, to take
countermeasures.

reported amounts and recognition of assets
and liabilities, income and expenses, contingent liabilities and other data that must be
reported, as well as how these are classified.

The risk management system can regularly, as well as on an ad-hoc basis, identify events that could affect the Company’s
economic performance and its accounting
process so that it can analyze and evaluate
the resulting risks and take the necessary
actions to counter them.

The Administrative Board’s Audit Committee meets regularly with the independent,
statutory auditors, the Managing Directors
and the internal audit department to discuss
the results of the statutory audits of the financial statements and of the internal audits with respect to the internal control and
risk management system as it relates to the
accounting process. During the meeting
held to discuss the annual financial statements, the statutory auditor reports to the
Administrative Board on the results of the
audit of the annual financial statements and
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In preparing the consolidated financial
statements and the Group management
report, it is also sometimes necessary to
make assumptions and estimates that are
based on the information available on the
balance sheet date and which will affect the

PUMA TRAINING | 105

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

INFORMATION CONCERNING
TAKEOVERS

Section 315 [4][1] (HGB)
On the balance sheet date, subscribed capital totaled €38.6 million and was divided
into 15,082,464 no-par-value shares. As of
the balance sheet date, the Company held
142,551 treasury shares.

the 75% threshold and on that date stood
at 75.12%. 1.15% of the share of voting rights concerned treasury shares of
PUMA SE. The list of shareholdings of Kering S.A. on page 290 in the annual report for
2014 shows that Kering S.A. has an 85.81%
share of the voting rights in PUMA SE.

Section 315 [4][3] HGB

Section 315 [4][6] HGB

As of December 31, 2015 there was
one shareholding in PUMA SE that exceeded 10% of the voting rights. It was held
by Messrs. François-Henri Joseph Pinault and François Jean-Henri Pinault via
several companies controlled by them
(ranked by size of stake held by Messrs.
Pinault: Financière Pinault S.C.A., Artémis
S.A., Kering S.A. and SAPARDIS SE).
On August 3, 2011, the share of voting
rights allotted to Messrs. Pinault and to
the aforementioned companies exceeded

Regarding the appointment and dismissal
of Managing Directors, reference is made
to the applicable statutory requirements of
Section 40 of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG). Moreover, Section 13[1] of
PUMA SE’s Articles of Association stipulates that the Administrative Board shall appoint one or several Managing Director(s).
It may appoint one of these Managing Directors as Chief Executive Officer and
one or two as Deputy Chief Executive
Officers. Pursuant to Section 13[4] of PUMA

106 | PUMA TRAINING

SE’s Articles of Association, Managing
Directors may be dismissed only for good
cause, within the meaning of Section 84[3] of
the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) or
if the employment agreement is terminated,
in which case a resolution must be adopted
by the Administrative Board with a simple
majority of the votes cast. Pursuant to Art.
9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO), the
requirements for changing the Articles of
Association are governed by Sections 133
and 179 of the German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG). The Administrative Board is authorized to make changes to the Articles of
Association that affect only the text (Article
9(3) of PUMA SE’s Articles of Association).

Section 315 [4][7] HGB
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual
General Meeting dated April 24, 2012, the
Administrative Board is authorized to in-

crease the share capital by April 23, 2017
as follows:
1. By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up
to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata
amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions.
The new shares can also be acquired by
one or several banks as determined by
the Administrative Board, subject to the
obligation to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription
right). The shareholders are basically
entitled to a subscription right. The Administrative Board is, however, authorized to exclude the subscription rights of
shareholders to avoid fractional shares.
The Administrative Board is authorized to
determine the additional rights of shares
and the conditions of the share issue (Authorized Capital I).

2. By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up
to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata
amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions
or contributions in kind. The new shares
can also be acquired by one or several
banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation to offer
these to the shareholders for subscription
(indirect subscription right). The Administrative Board is authorized to exclude the
subscription rights of shareholders in part
or in whole, once or several times
u to avoid fractional shares;
u in the event of capital increases against
contributions in kind to carry out mergers or for the acquisition of companies,
shareholdings in companies or parts of
companies;

u for capital increases against cash contributions, provided the amount of the
share capital attributable to the new
shares does not exceed ten percent of
the share capital and the issue amount
for the new shares is not significantly
below the market price of already listed
shares, Section 186(3)(4) AktG. The
ten percent limit of the share capital
is valid for the date of the resolution of
the Annual General Meeting on this authorization and on the exercise date of
the authorization. The sale of treasury
shares, which are sold during the term
of Authorized Capital II under exclusion
of subscription rights of shareholders in
application of section 186(3)(4) AktG,
and the issuance of shares to service
options or convertible bonds issued
during the term of Authorized Capital
II under exclusion of subscription rights

of shareholders in application of section 186(3)(4) AktG, shall be counted
toward the ten percent limit of the share
capital.
The Administrative Board is authorized to
determine the additional rights of shares
and the conditions of the share issue (Authorized Capital II).
Pursuant to the resolution passed by the
Annual General Meeting of April 22, 2008,
the share capital can be increased by up to
€ 1.5 million through the issuance of up to
600,000 new shares. The contingent capital
increase shall be used exclusively for granting subscription rights (stock options) to
former members of the Supervisory Board
and the Managing Directors of the Company
as well as other executives of the company
and subordinate associated companies.

The authorization period has expired. Section 4.4. of the Articles of Association of the
Company will be deleted upon a respective
resolution of the Administrative Board of the
Company.
The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015 authorized the
company to purchase treasury shares up to
a value of ten percent of the share capital
until May 5, 2020.
For more details, please refer to the relevant
disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements (Section 18).

PUMA TRAINING | 107

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT
AND OUTLOOK
Supplemental Report

Outlook

There were no events after the balance
sheet date which may have a material effect
on the net assets, financial position and results of operations

Global Economic Situation
In its winter 2015 forecast, the Kiel Institute
for the World Economy (IfW) assumes that
global production will grow by 3.4% in 2016.
The Institute has thus revised its forecast of
September 2015 downward by 0.3 percentage points. For 2017, the IfW expects a rise
in global gross domestic product (GDP) of
3.8%.
The advanced economies are expected to
gain strength in the next two years. As a result, the Institute forecasts a 2.5% increase
in GDP in both 2016 and 2017. The main
drivers of this growth are expected to be the
continued expansionary monetary policy,
the elimination of fiscal policy disincentives
and the low oil price. While the United States
will probably achieve GDP growth of 2.8 %
(2016) and 3% (2017), which is above average for this group of countries, the figures
for the Euro zone are expected to be 1.7 %
and 2.0 %, respectively.

108 | PUMA TRAINING

For now, the expansion in the emerging
markets will be dampened by low commodity prices and structural problems. Although
these economies are expected to gradually
stabilize overall, their contribution to global
economic growth will continue to lag behind
the levels seen in previous years.
The IfW sees risks to the global economy
mainly in geopolitical developments and
turmoil in the financial markets. In particular, the deterioration of the situation in
the Middle East could lead to uncertainty
among consumers and investors and hinder
the forecast gradual recovery of the global
economy.
In addition, tensions in the financial markets
– for example in connection with interest
rate increases in the United States – could
have an effect on the real economy and
dampen the momentum of the global economy.

In 2016, PUMA will continue to invest in
marketing to further strengthen its brand positioning. In addition, investments will continue to be made to expand the Company’s
own retail stores and to optimize the IT infrastructure in order to further increase the efficiency of internal processes and make the
Company even faster and leaner in the future. The focus of our sales strategy remains
on the development of innovative products
and close cooperation with key trading partners.
The Forever Faster brand campaign will
be continued in 2016 and will be accompanied by product launches and new partnerships with brand ambassadors known
worldwide.
2016 promises to be an eventful year, with
major sporting events which PUMA will use
to strengthen its position as a performance
brand. In the Football category, PUMA will

be represented at the UEFA Euro 2016 by
Italy, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and Switzerland. The Copa América in
the United States is another major event at
which PUMA will demonstrate its focus on
sports. The summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro will give PUMA another important platform to increase its brand presence through
its sponsorship of the fastest man in the
world, Usain Bolt, and many other worldclass athletes and teams.

Outlook
Since autumn 2014, PUMA has invested
heavily into its Forever Faster Campaign to
position PUMA as the Fastest Sports Brand
in the World. The partnerships with PUMA’s
most elite ambassadors – the World’s Fastest Man Usain Bolt, star striker Sergio Agüero, Golfstar Rickie Fowler, Arsenal Football
Club, Borussia Dortmund, the Jamaican and
Cuban Olympic Federations, multi-platinum
recording artist, designer and entrepreneur
Rihanna, and more – have played a major

role in increasing the brand heat and sellthrough for PUMA in 2015.
With major improvements in the product
offering, improved sourcing and higher
investments in marketing, PUMA is confident that 2016 will be a year of solid sales
growth with an initial improvement of profitability. As a consequence, currency-adjusted net sales are expected to increase at a
high single-digit rate for the full-year 2016.
The gross profit margin is forecasted to be
on previous year’s level (45.5%), as countermeasures are planned to compensate
the negative impact of further foreign currency developments for 2016 compared to
2015.
PUMA’s OPEX are forecasted to increase
in a mid to high single-digit range. From
a marketing perspective, the two major
sporting events in 2016 (UEFA Euro 2016
and Rio 2016 Olympic Games) will require
additional funding as does investment

to modernize our retail store portfolio.
Ongoing investments into the upgrade of
PUMA’s IT-infrastructure will contribute to
an increase in OPEX, but at all times management will continue to place a strong emphasis on strict control of other operating
costs.
At the current exchange rate levels, PUMA’s
management expects that the operating result will improve in 2016 compared to last
year. EBIT for the full-year 2016 is expected
to come in between € 115 million and € 125
million with net earnings forecasted to improve correspondingly.

In addition, there are current purchase-price
liabilities from corporate acquisitions that
are expected to result in a cash outflow of
€ 3.0 million in 2016.

Foundation for Long-Term Growth
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board have established long-term
strategic priorities. Action plans are being
implemented in a targeted, value-oriented
manner. PUMA’s management believes that
the Forever Faster corporate strategy will lay
the foundations for positive long-term development.

Investments
Investments totaling around € 80 million
are planned for 2016. The major portion will
be allocated to infrastructure investments
which are necessary to help drive sustainable growth as well as the expansion of our
core markets and selective investments in
retail stores.
PUMA TRAINING | 109

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT INCLUDING THE
STATEMENT ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Effective implementation of the principles of
corporate governance is an important aspect of PUMA’s corporate policy. Transparent and responsible corporate governance
is a key prerequisite for achieving corporate
targets and for increasing the Company’s
value in a sustainable manner. The Administrative Board and the Managing Directors
work closely with each other in the interests of the entire Company to ensure that
the Company is managed and monitored in
an efficient way that will ensure sustainable
added value through good corporate governance.

110 | PUMA TRAINING

Communication of the Statement of
the Administrative Board of PUMA SE
pursuant to Section 161 AktG on the
German Corporate Governance Code
2015 Statement of Compliance:
Pursuant to Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO) and Section 22(6) of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in conjunction with Section 161 AktG, PUMA SE’s
Administrative Board declares that PUMA
SE has been and is in compliance with recommendations issued by the “Government
Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code” (the “Code”) (in the versions
dated June 24, 2014 and May 5, 2015) since
the last Statement of Compliance of Novem-

ber 2014 in consideration of the particulars
of PUMA SE’s single-tier system described
under item 1 with the exceptions mentioned
under item 2, and where it is not in compliance, explains why not.

1st Particulars
of the Single-Tier Corporate Governance System
According to Art. 43 – 45 SE-VO,
in conjunction with Sections 20 et
seqq. SEAG, under the single-tier
system, management of the SE is the
responsibility of a single company
organ, the Administrative Board (see
Para. 7 of the Code’s Preamble).
The Administrative Board manages
the Company, determines the Company’s basic business strategies and
monitors the implementation of said
strategies by the Managing Directors.
The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s business, represent the
Company in and out of court, and are
bound by instructions from the Administrative Board.

Basically, PUMA SE takes those parts
of the Code that apply to the Supervisory Board and applies them to the
Administrative Board and takes those
parts of the Code that used to apply to
the Board of Management and applies
them to its Managing Directors. The following exceptions apply with respect to
the legal framework for the single-tier
system:

n derogation of No. 2.2.1 p.1 of the
u I
Code, the Administrative Board must
submit the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial
statements to the Annual General
Meeting (Section 48(2) p. 2 SEAG).
u I
n derogation of Nos. 2.3.1 p. 1 and
3.7(3) of the Code, the Administrative
Board is responsible for convening
the Annual General Meeting (Sections 48 and 22(2) SEAG).
u T
he duties of the Board of Management listed in Sections 4.1.1 (Corporate Governance), and 4.1.2 in
conjunction with 3.2 half-sentence 1
(Development of the Company’s Strategic Orientation) of the Code are the
responsibility of the Administrative
Board (Section 22(1) SEAG).
u T
he powers of the Board of Management governed by Sections 2.3.2(2)
(Proxy Bound by Instructions), 3.7(1)
(Statement on a Takeover Bid) and
3.7(2) (Conduct during a Takeover
Bid), as well as 3.10 (Corporate Governance Report), 4.1.3 (Compliance)
and 4.1.4 (Risk Management and
Controlling) of the Code are the responsibility of PUMA SE’s Administrative Board (Section 22(6) SEAG).
n derogation of Nos. 5.1.2(2)(1 and
u I
2) of the Code, Managing Directors,

unlike members of the Board of Management, are not subject to a fixed,
maximum term of appointment (Section 40(1)(1) SEAG).
u I
n derogation of Nos. 5.4.2 p. 2 and
5.4.4 of the Code, members of the
Administrative Board may be appointed as Managing Directors, provided
that the majority of the Administrative
Board continues to consist of non-executive Managing Directors (Section
40(1) p. 2 SEAG).
2nd Exceptions to the Code’s recommendations
u 
In derogation of No. 3.8(3) of the
Code, members of the Administrative
Board are provided with D&O insurance with no deductible. The Administrative Board feels that it can dispense
with a deductible for members of the
Administrative Board, because the
D&O insurance is group insurance for
people in Germany and abroad, and
a deductible is fairly unusual abroad.
u I
n derogation of No. 4.2.3(2)(6) of the
Code, the compensation of the Managing Directors does not show the
maximum amount limits in total or
their variable compensation components. The employment contracts of
the Managing Directors were concluded in accordance with the current version of the Code and are deemed to
be proper and correct by PUMA SE.

n derogation of No. 4.2.3(5) of the
u I
Code, no limits on severance payments for premature termination as a
Managing Director due to a change of
control have been agreed to, because
an agreement drawn up in advance
would not be able to take into account
the specific situation that gave rise to
a premature termination or the other
circumstances of the individual case
of termination.
u I
n accordance with the authorization by the Annual General Meeting
on May 7, 2013, pursuant to Section
286(5) HGB, the Company shall not
publish the amounts of compensation for individual Managing Directors
until the authorization expires (Sections 4.2.4 and 4.2.5 of the Code).
The Managing Directors shall adhere
to the authorization when they prepare the annual financial statements.
Based on the authorization of the Annual General Meeting, and in derogation of No. 4.2.5(3) of the Code,
the information stated in this Section
regarding the compensation of the
Managing Directors is not included in
the Compensation Report.
n derogation of No. 5.4.6(2) page
u I
2 of the Code, members of the Administrative Board receive performance-based compensation that is
not linked to the sustainable success
of the Company. The compensation

was authorized by the Annual General Meeting on April 14, 2011; it is
stipulated in the Articles of Association and is deemed to be proper and
correct by PUMA SE.
eviating from Section 5.4.6(3)
u D
of the Code, the compensation of the

Administrative Board members is
not shown individually. In the opinion
of PUMA SE, this additional information is not relevant to the capital
market, as the respective remuneration regulations are in the public
domain in the Articles of Association.

Herzogenaurach, November 9 2015
PUMA SE
On behalf of the Administrative Board

Jean-François Palus

The Statement of Compliance is available at any time on the Company’s website at
http://about.puma.com/de/investor-relations/corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/.
PUMA TRAINING | 111

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

Relevant Disclosures of Corporate
Governance Practices that are applied
beyond the Regulatory Requirements
In order to fulfill our responsibility as a
global sporting goods manufacturer, PUMA
has developed guidelines on environmental management and on compliance with
workplace and social standards (see http://
about.puma.com under “SUSTAINABILITY”). The PUMA Code of Ethics and PUMA
Code of Conduct (see http://about.puma.
com under “SUSTAINABILITY”) prescribe
ethical standards and environmental standards with which both employees in the entire
PUMA Group and suppliers are required to
comply.
Compliance with laws and internal regulations and values are of key importance for
PUMA’s corporate governance. For this reason, the existing PUMA Code of Conduct
(http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/standards/coc) was further developed,
revised and rolled out company-wide. The
communication of the PUMA Code of Ethics
was made directly by the CEO of PUMA SE.
To further reduce the risk of misconduct, the
Code of Ethics is accompanied by guidelines governing selected risk areas in detail.
Risk-based classroom training sessions in
the areas of corruption and antitrust are being conducted.
Again in 2015, the CEO of PUMA SE expected all PUMA employees to complete an
Ethics e-learning training course.
112 | PUMA TRAINING

The establishment and monitoring of the
Group’s compliance structure is carried out
by the PUMA SE Risk & Compliance Committee. This consists of a specified group
of executives, including PUMA’s CEO and
CFO. The regular meetings of the Committee include the analysis of compliance
risks and the establishment and approval
of appropriate measures (guidelines, training courses, etc.). The Audit Committee of
the Administrative Board of PUMA SE is informed regularly as to the status of the compliance structure implementation.
The employees of PUMA have access to
a Group-wide integrity hotline for reporting
unethical, unlawful and criminal activity.

Description of the Working Practices
of the Administrative Board and the
Managing Directors and the Composition and Working Practices of their
Committees
PUMA SE has a single-tier management
and control structure. According to Articles
43 – 45 SE-VO, in conjunction with Sections
20 et seqq. SEAG, under the single-tier system, management of the SE is the responsibility of a single body, the Administrative
Board. The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s daily business. Another corporate body is the Annual General Meeting.
The Administrative Board of PUMA SE
manages the Company, determines the

Company’s basic business strategies and
monitors the implementation of said strategies by the Managing Directors. It appoints
and dismisses the Managing Directors, decides on the compensation system and establishes the compensation. In accordance
with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board consists of at least three members. At least one independent member of
the Administrative Board must have expertise in the areas of finance, accounting or
auditing. The members of the Administrative
Board are appointed by the Annual General
Meeting, a third of them pursuant to the German Codetermination Act based on binding
nominations by employee representatives.
The members of the Administrative Board
are appointed for a period up to the close
of the Annual General Meeting that adopts
the resolution approving the actions of the
Board for the fourth financial year after the
term of office began (the financial year in
which the term of office begins is not counted) and no later than six years after the respective Administrative Board member was
appointed. Administrative Board members
may be reappointed.
Through May 6, 2015, there were eight
members of the Administrative Board and
nine members thereafter. The regular period
of office of all members of the Administrative
Board ends at the close of the Annual General Meeting in 2017. Details of the members
of the Administrative Board can be found
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements (last chapter).

Meetings of the Administrative Board must
be held at least every three months. Meetings must also be held if required for the
Company’s well-being or if a member of the
Administrative Board demands that a meeting be convened. The Administrative Board
held four regular meetings in 2015.
The Administrative Board has established
five committees to perform its duties and
receives regular reports on their work. The
principles of cooperation of the Administrative Board of PUMA SE and the duties of the
committees are set out in the Rules of Procedure for the Administrative Board, which
can be viewed at http://about.puma.com
under “Corporate Governance”.
The Executive Committee consists of three
members. It is responsible for organizing
meetings of the Administrative Board and
for making decisions when instructed by the
Administrative Board to do so on its behalf.
The Personnel Committee consists of three
members. The Personnel Committee is
responsible for entering into and making
changes to Managing Directors’ employment contracts and for establishing policies
for Human Resources and personnel development. The entire Administrative Board
decides on issues involving the Managing
Directors’ compensation based on recommendations from the Personnel Committee.
The Audit Committee consists of three
members. The Chairman of the Audit Com-

mittee must be an independent shareholder
representative and must have expertise in
the fields of accounting and auditing in accordance with Section 100(5) AktG. In particular, the Audit Committee is responsible
for accounting issues and monitoring the
accounting process, the effectiveness of the
internal control system, the risk management system, internal audits, compliance
and the statutory audit of the financial statements, with particular regard to the required
independence of the statutory auditors, issuing the audit mandate to the statutory auditors, defining the audit areas of focus, any
additional services to be performed by the
auditors and the fee agreement. The recommendation of the Administrative Board
on the selection of the statutory auditors
must be based on a corresponding recommendation by the Audit Committee. Once
the Annual General Meeting has appointed
the statutory auditors, and the Administrative Board has issued the audit assignment,
the Audit Committee shall work with the
statutory auditors to specify the scope of
the audit and the audit areas of focus. The
statutory auditors shall attend the meeting
convened by the Audit Committee to review the annual financial statements and
the consolidated financial statements and
shall report on the key findings of their audit.
They shall also inform the Committee about
other services they have provided in addition to auditing services and shall confirm
their independence. Each month, the Audit
Committee shall receive financial data on
the PUMA Group, which will allow the track-

ing of developments in net assets, financial
position, results of operations and the order
books on a continual basis. The Audit Committee shall also deal with issues relating to
the balance sheet and income statement
and shall discuss these with Management.
In addition, when the internal audit projects
are completed, the Audit Committee shall
receive the audit reports, which must also
include any actions taken.
The Sustainability Committee consists of
three members and is responsible for promoting business sustainability as well as
awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly,
positively and creatively in every decision
made and every action taken.
The Nominating Committee has three members, who may only be representatives of the
shareholders on the Administrative Board.
The Nominating Committee proposes suitable shareholder candidates to the Administrative Board for its voting recommendations
to the Annual General Meeting.
The current composition of the committees
can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (last chapter).
The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s business with the goal of creating sustainable value with shared responsibility. They implement the guidelines and
targets issued by the Administrative Board.
The Board currently consists of three members and has a chairman. The Managing

Directors inform the Administrative Board
regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely
manner regarding all company-related issues with respect to planning, business development, the risk situation, risk management and compliance. They provide details
on and reasons for deviations of business
performance from established plans and objectives.
The Managing Directors are required to
disclose conflicts of interest to the Administrative Board immediately and inform the
other Managing Directors about any such
conflicts. They are permitted to carry out
additional activities, especially Supervisory Board or similar mandates outside the
PUMA Group, only with the prior approval of
the Administrative Board. In the past year,
Managing Directors of PUMA SE had no
conflicts of interest.
The principles of cooperation of the Managing
Directors of PUMA SE are laid down in the
Rules of Procedure for the Managing Directors, which can be viewed at http://about.
puma.com under “Corporate Governance”.

Taking Diversity and our International
Culture into Account
The members of the Administrative Board of
PUMA SE possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and professional experience
necessary for the proper fulfillment of their
duties. A sufficient number of members
have strong international backgrounds. The

Administrative Board has established the
goal of ensuring that a sufficient number of
future members of the Board will also have
international backgrounds by requiring that
proposed candidates to the Administrative
Board must also have a strong international
background and the relevant networks, international experience and orientation.
The Administrative Board has put its objective of increasing the proportion of women
on the Administrative Board in concrete
terms. The target for the proportion of women on the Administrative Board was set at
30% by resolution of July 22, 2015. This target must be reached by June 30, 2017. This
is consistent with the requirements of the
act on the equal participation of women and
men in executive positions in the private and
the public sector, which entered into force
in May 2015 and must be implemented from
January 2016.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has
specialist knowledge and experience in the
application of accounting principles and internal control procedures and is independent. The Administrative Board prevents potential conflicts of interest of its members by
regularly monitoring and critically scrutinizing its members‘ other activities. According
to Section 1(4) of the Rules of Procedure
for the Administrative Board, Administrative Board members may, in principle, not
be over 70 years of age and their maximum
term of office may not exceed three terms.
Including the employees‘ representative on
PUMA TRAINING | 113

3 | GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT

the Administrative Board, the Administrative
Board has an appropriate number of independent members.
Members of PUMA SE‘s Administrative
Board, its Managing Directors and senior
staff have the opportunity to attend appropriate training and continuing education programs.

Decisions on Promoting the Participation of Women in Management
Positions
The act on the equal participation of women
and men in executive positions in the private
and the public sector of May 2015 required
PUMA to set targets for the proportion of
women at the level of Managing Directors
and the next two management levels below
by September 30, 2015. In addition, it was
required to specify a deadline for meeting
these targets. Under the law the first implementation deadline must not go beyond
June 30, 2017. When setting the next implementation deadline, the period may be up to
five years.
On July 22, 2015, the Administrative Board
of PUMA SE set a target of 20% women at
the level of the Managing Directors, on the
condition that PUMA SE has five or more
Managing Directors. The deadline for implementation is June 30, 2017.
On July 22, 2015, the Administrative Board
of PUMA SE set a target of 20 % for the
114 | PUMA TRAINING

first management level below the Managing
Directors, to be implemented by June 30,
2017. For the second management level below the Managing Directors the Administrative Board of PUMA SE adopted a target of
30%, also to be met by June 30, 2017.
In the future, the inclusion of women among
the Managing Directors shall be guaranteed in the event of a new appointment, in
particular by giving special consideration to
women from among several equally qualified applicants. If a position must be filled by
outside candidates, special care should be
taken to consider properly qualified female
candidates. The same applies when filling
management positions. In order to include
even more women in management positions in the future, PUMA SE is using parttime and half-day models, as well as flexible working hours and the provision of more
childcare places to promote a better balance
between work and family life.

Directors‘ Dealings
In the reporting year, the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative
Board have acquired no PUMA shares. No
sales were reported to us.

Shareholdings of the Administrative
Board and the Managing Directors
According to the notification dated August
3, 2011 pursuant to Sections 21 and 22 of
the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG),

on this date Messrs. François-Henri Joseph
Pinault (Administrative Board member) and
François Jean-Henri Pinault indirectly held
75.12% (11,330,446 voting rights) of the voting rights in PUMA SE, of which 1.15% of
the voting rights (173,377 voting rights) were
treasury shares of PUMA SE.

Declaration by the Legal
Representatives
Regarding the Affirmation pursuant to Section 315(1)(6) of the German Commercial
Code (HGB) (Responsibility Statement/Bilanzeid), please refer to the Notes.

Herzogenaurach, February 5, 2016

The Managing Directors

GULDEN

LÄMMERMANN

SØRENSEN

CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position 116
Consolidated Income Statement 117
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income 118
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 119
Statement of Changes in Equity 120
Changes in Fixed Assets 128
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 129
Auditor‘s Certificate 162

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to always be
up-to-date in terms of my
expertise to be well prepared
for future challenges.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Klaus Kutschera, IFRS Specialist

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

T.1

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Notes

31.12.2015
€ million

31.12.2014
€ million

ASSETS

Notes

31.12.2015
€ million

31.12.2014
€ million

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS‘ EQUITY

Cash and cash equivalents

3

338.8

401.5

Current financial liabilities

13

14.0

19.8

Inventories

4

657.0

571.5

Trade payables

13

519.7

515.2

Trade receivables

5

483.1

449.2

Income taxes

22

49.7

58.8

22

50.5

75.0

Other current provisions

16

52.7

69.5

Other current financial assets

6

76.8

93.6

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

3.0

0.5

Other current assets

7

78.6

91.8

Other current financial liabilities

13

115.9

51.0

1,684.8

1,682.5

Other current liabilities

13

125.1

107.8

880.0

822.6

8

64.2

54.6

Income tax receivables

Current assets

Current liabilities
Deferred taxes

8

219.8

178.8

Deferred taxes

Property, plant and equipment

9

232.6

224.0

Pension provisions

15

23.8

26.0

Intangible assets

10

403.3

391.4

Other non-current provisions

16

23.5

23.1

Investments in associates

11

15.2

15.2

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

0.0

2.5

Other non-current financial assets

12

39.3

34.6

Other non-current financial liabilities

13

7.2

0.3

Other non-current assets

12

25.2

23.4

Other non-current liabilities

13

2.2

2.5

935.5

867.5

121.0

109.0

Non-current assets

Non-current liabilities
Subscribed capital

18

38.6

38.6

Group reserves

18

162.5

176.0

Retained earnings

18

1,441.7

1,412.0

Treasury stock

18

-31.4

-31.4

1,611.3

1,595.2

Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent

Total assets

116 | PUMA TRAINING

2,620.3

2,549.9

Non-controlling interest

18

8.0

23.1

Shareholders' equity

18

1,619.3

1,618.3

2,620.3

2,549.9

Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity

T.2

Consolidated Income Statement

Notes

2015
2014
€ million € million

Sales

25

3,387.4

2,972.0

Cost of sales

25

-1,847.2

-1,586.7

Gross profit

25

1,540.2

1,385.4

16.5

19.4

-1,460.5

-1,276.8

96.3

128.0

Royalty and commission income
Other operating income and expenses

20

Operating income (EBIT)

Result from associated companies

21

1.0

1.3

Financial income

21

11.2

4.8

Financial expenses

21

-23.4

-12.3

Financial result

-11.2

-6.2

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

85.0

121.8

-23.3

-37.0

61.7

84.8

-24.6

-20.8

37.1

64.1

Taxes on income

22

Consolidated net earnings for the year
attributable to: Non-controlling interest

18

Equity holders of the parent (net earnings)

Earnings per share (€)

23

2.48

4.29

Earnings per share (€) - diluted

23

2.48

4.29

Weighted average shares outstanding (million)

23

14.940

14.940

Weighted average shares outstanding. diluted (million)

23

14.940

14.940

PUMA TRAINING | 117

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

T.3

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
After tax
2015
€ million

Tax impact
2015
€ million

Before tax
2015
€ million

After tax
2014
€ million

Tax impact
2014
€ million

Before tax
2014
€ million

Net earnings before attribution

61.7

61.7

84.8

Currency changes

-0.0

-0.0

29.5

0.7

28.7

Cashflow hedge
Release to the income statement
Market value for cashflow hedges

84.8

-34.6
21.2

13.5
-5.3

-48.1
26.5

3.2
34.6

-0.1
-13.5

3.3
48.1

Net result of available-for-sale financial assets

0.5

-0.2

0.6

-2.6

1.0

-3.5

Share in the other comprehensive income of at equity accounted investments

0.2

0.2

0.1

Items expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

0.1

-12.7

8.1

-20.8

64.8

-11.9

76.7

Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability

1.4

-0.3

1.7

-3.1

0.9

-4.0

Items not expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

1.4

-0.3

1.7

-3.1

0.9

-4.0

Other result

-11.3

7.7

-19.1

61.7

-11.0

72.7

Comprehensive income
attributable to: Non-controlling interest
Equity holder of the parent

50.4
26.9
23.5

7.7

42.6
26.9
15.7

146.6
23.3
123.2

-11.0

157.5
23.3
134.2

118 | PUMA TRAINING

7.7

-11.0

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

T.4

Notes

2015
€ million

2014
€ Million

Operating activities

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Payment for acquisitions

17

-0.5

-2.4

Payments to acquire long term shareholdings

12

0.0

-21.4

9, 10

-79.0

-72.6

23.8

12.6

Investing activities
85.0

Earnings before tax (EBT)

121.8

Adjustments for:
Depreciation

Notes

9, 10

Non-realized currency gains/losses, net

57.5

50.5

Purchase of property and equipment

-5.3

-1.2

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

Result from associated companies

11

-0.9

-1.3

Payment for other assets

12

-13.2

-8.0

Financial income

21

-11.0

-4.8

Interest received

21

7.2

4.8

Financial expenses

21

15.2

10.8

-61.7

-87.0

-16.4

0.6

-0.5

-7.1

10.9

3.0

Changes from the sale of fixed assets
Changes to pension accruals

15

Other non cash effected expenses/income
Gross Cashflow
Changes in receivables and other current assets
Changes in inventories
Changes in trade payables and other current liabilities

26

172.2

Financing activities
Changes in non-current liabilities

13

0.1

0.2

Raising/ (-) Repayment of current financial liabilities

13

71.0

-10.2

Raising of non-current financial liabilities

13

7.3

0.0

5, 6, 7

-8.8

-45.3

Dividend payments to equity holders of the parent

18

-7.5

-7.5

4

-92.2

-35.9

Dividend payments to non-controlling interests

18

-42.0

-16.2

13

-24.1

98.0

Payments to acquire non-controlling interests

18

0.0

-2.6

9.4

188.9

Cash inflow/outflow from financing activities

26

28.9

-36.2

0.9

0.4

Exchange rate-related changes in cashflow

7.3

8.2

Cash inflow from operating activities
Dividends received

134.5

Cash outflow from investing activities

11, 12

Interest paid

21

-9.1

-9.8

Change in cash and cash equivalents

-62.7

11.4

Income taxes paid

22

-38.4

-53.2

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year

401.5

390.1

Net cash from operating activities

26

-37.1

126.4

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year

338.8

401.5

3, 26

PUMA TRAINING | 119

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

T.5

Statement of Changes in Equity € million
Reserves

December 31, 2013

Subscribed
capital

Capital
reserve

Revenue
reserves

Difference
from
currency
conversion

38.6

193.3

66.0

-137.5

Cash flow
hedges

At equity
accounted
investments

Retained
earnings

Treasury
stock

Equity before
non-controlling
interests

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

-3.2

0.3

1,355.4

-31.4

1,481.6

15.7

1,497.3

64.1

20.8

84.8

59.2

2.6

61.7

64.1

123.2

23.3

146.6

-7.5

-7.5

-16.2

-23.6

Net Earnings

64.1

Net income directly recognized in equity
Total comprehensive income

-5.6

26.9

37.7

0.1

5.6

26.9

37.7

0.1

Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company /
non-controlling interests
Valuation from option programs

0.3

Acquisition of non-controlling interests

0.3
-2.5

-2.5

-0.1

-2.6

0.4

0.4

1,595.2

23.1

1,618.3

37.1

24.6

61.7

-13.7

2.3

-11.3

37.1

23.5

26.9

50.4

-7.5

-7.5

-42.0

-49.5

Changes in the group of consolidated companies
December 31, 2014

38.6

193.7

57.9

-110.6

34.6

0.5

Net Earnings
1.9

-2.4

-13.3

0.2

Total comprehensive income

1.9

-2.4

-13.3

0.2

Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company /
non-controlling interests
Changes in the group of consolidated companies
December 31, 2015

120 | PUMA TRAINING

1,412.0

-31.4

37.1

Net income directly recognized in equity

0.1
38.6

193.7

59.7

-112.8

0.3

0.1
21.2

0.6

1,441.7

-31.4

1,611.3

0.1
8.0

1,619.3

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2014
Accumulated depreciation

Purchase costs
Balance
Jan1, 2014
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers

168.1

6.1

1.9

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Jan1, 2014
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers1)

-15.8

160.3

-53.5

-1.8

-5.9

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2013
€ million

6.8

-54.4

105.9

114.6

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land, land rights and buildings
including buildings on third party land
Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Payments on account and assets under construction

8.9

4.7

4.3

-2.0

15.9

-4.6

-1.5

1.9

-4.2

11.7

4.3

279.5

10.1

42.3

-28.4

303.5

-196.8

-5.4

-32.4

26.2

-208.4

95.1

82.7

11.3

11.2

-7.2

-39.8

34.9

-267.0

224.0

212.8

-56.6

241.7

243.0

-17.6

117.2

103.1

11.2

-9.4

9.8

-0.3

11.3

467.7

11.5

58.3

-46.5

491.0

-254.9

2.2

INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill

292.6

3.5

Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life

120.7

14.1

Other intangible fixed assets

110.8

-11.5

14.3

524.1

6.1

16.5

298.3

-49.6

134.8

-17.6

-7.0

-3.1

110.5

-82.8

12.9

-11.0

2.9

-78.0

32.5

28.0

-3.1

543.6

-150.0

12.9

-18.0

2.9

-152.2

391.4

374.1

1) including impairment for fixed assets (€0.3 million) and intangible assets (€7.0 million), see chapters 9 and 10

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2015
Accumulated depreciation

Purchase costs
Balance
Jan1, 2015
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2015
€ million

Balance
Jan1, 2015
€ million

Currency
changes and
other changes

Additions/
retransfers1)

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31, 2015
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2015
€ million

Balance
Dec 31, 2014
€ million

5.4

-55.6

111.6

105.9

-6.1

11.9

11.7

-218.9

105.1

95.1

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land, land rights and buildings
including buildings on third party land
Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Payments on account and assets under construction

160.3

8.6

8.2

-9.9

167.2

-54.4

-0.8

-5.8

15.9

-0.3

2.5

-0.1

18.0

-4.2

0.3

-2.2

303.5

11.4

44.2

-35.1

324.0

-208.4

-5.1

-36.7

11.3

-13.2

7.5

-1.6

4.0

491.0

6.5

62.4

-46.7

513.2

-267.0

-5.6

0.2

-12.7

291.4

-56.6

-0.6

148.3

-17.6

-0.1

-44.7

31.3

4.0

11.3

36.7

-280.6

232.6

224.0

6.1

-51.1

240.3

241.7

-17.7

130.6

117.2

INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill

298.3

5.6

Intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life

134.8

13.5

Other intangible fixed assets

110.5

-2.4

16.6

-1.5

123.2

-78.0

-1.2

-12.8

1.2

-90.8

32.4

32.5

543.6

16.7

16.8

-14.2

562.9

-152.2

-1.9

-12.8

7.3

-159.6

403.3

391.4

1) There was no impairment for fixed assets and intangible assets in the financial year 2015, see chapters 9 and 10

PUMA TRAINING | 121

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

NOTES TO THE
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. General  1
Under the “PUMA” brand name, PUMA SE and its subsidiaries are engaged in the development and sale of a broad range of sports and sports lifestyle products, including footwear,
apparel and accessories. The company is a European stock corporation (Societas Europaea/SE) and its registered office is at PUMA WAY 1, 91074 Herzogenaurach, Germany.
The competent registry court is in Fürth (Bavaria).
The consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Group” or “PUMA”) were prepared in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as they are to be applied in the EU, and the supplementary accounting principles to be applied in accordance with Section 315a (1) of the German
Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB). All IASB standards and interpretations, as
they are to be applied in the EU, which are mandatory for financial years as of January 1,
2015 have been applied.
1

G4-17

122 | PUMA TRAINING

The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been used for the first
time in the current financial year:

T.7

Standard

Name

First time adoption in the current financial year
Amendment IAS 19

Defined benefit plans: employee contributions

IFRIC 21

Levies

AIP 2010 - 2012

Improvements to IFRS

AIP 2011 - 2013

Improvements to IFRS

The standards and interpretations used for the first time as of January 1, 2015 did not have
any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been released, but will only take effect in
later reporting periods and have not been applied earlier by the Group:

T.8
Standard

Name

Date of
adoption*

Planned
adoption

Endorsed

Detailed analyses are still being conducted with respect to the first-time application of IFRS
9 and IFRS 16. The new leasing standard IFRS 16 will result in all future leases being accounted for in the form of a usage right and a corresponding leasing obligation. In all cases,
it is presented in the income statement as a financing transaction, i.e. the usage right is
normally subject to straight-line depreciation and the leasing obligation is carried forward
using the effective interest method.
The company does not anticipate that the remaining standards mentioned above will have
a significant impact on accounting.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements was based on historical acquisition
and manufacturing costs, with the exception of the profit or loss assessment of financial assets and liabilities at fair value.

Amendment IFRS 11

Accounting for the acquisition of an interest in a
joint operation

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

Amendment IAS 1

Disclosure initiative

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

Amendment IAS 16
and IAS 38

Clarification of acceptable methods of
depreciation and amortization

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

Amendment IAS 16
and IAS 41

Agriculture: bearer plants

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

Amendment IAS 27

Application of the equity method in separate
financial statements

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

The cost of sales method is used for the income statement 2.

AIP 2012 - 2014

Improvements to IFRS

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

2. Significant Consolidation, Accounting and Valuation Principles

Endorsement pending
IFRS 9

Financial instruments

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

IFRS 14

Regulatory deferral accounts

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

IFRS 15

Revenue from contracts with customers

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

IFRS 16

Leasing

1/1/2019

1/1/2019

Amendment IFRS
10, IFRS 12 and
IAS 28

Investment entities: Applying the consolidation
exception

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

-

-

Amendment IFRS 10 Sale or contribution of assets between an invesand IAS 28
tor and its associate or joint venture
* Adjusted by EU endorsement, if applicable

The items contained in the financial statements of the individual Group companies are valued based on the currency that corresponds to the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in Euros (EUR or €). Amounts shown in millions of Euros with one decimal place may
lead to rounding differences, since the calculation of individual items is based on figures
presented in thousands.

CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES The consolidated financial statements were prepared as of
December 31, 2015, the reporting date of the annual financial statements of the PUMA SE
parent company, on the basis of uniform accounting and valuation principles according to
IFRS, as applied in the EU.
Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Group has existing rights that give it the ability to direct their main activities. The main activities are the activities that have a material
impact on the profitability of the company. Control thus only exists if the Group is exposed
to variable returns from the relationship with a company and its power over the main activities gives it the opportunity to influence these returns. As a rule, the possibility of control
is based on a direct or indirect majority of the voting rights by PUMA. Subsidiaries are
consolidated from the date on which the possibility of control exists. They are no longer
consolidated when this possibility no longer exists.
2

G4-17

PUMA TRAINING | 123

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The capital consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired after January 1, 2005 is based on the
acquisition method. Upon initial consolidation, the assets, debts and contingent liabilities
that can be identified as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value as of
the acquisition date, regardless of the non-controlling interests (previously referred to as
minority interests). At the time of the acquisition, there is a separately exercisable right to
vote on whether the interests of the non-controlling shareholders are valued at fair value or
at proportional net asset value.
The surplus of the acquisition costs arising from the purchase that exceeds the Group’s
share in the net assets stated at fair value is recognized as goodwill. If the acquisition costs
are lower than the amount of the net assets stated at fair value, the difference is recognized
directly in the income statement.
Pursuant to the contractual arrangement with the joint venture partners, PUMA is the beneficial owner of some controlling interests. The companies are fully included in the consolidated financial statements and, therefore, non-controlling interests are not disclosed. The
present value of the capital shares attributable to the non-controlling shareholders and the
present value of the residual purchase prices expected due to corporate performance are
included in the capital consolidation as acquisition costs for the holdings. If there are any
subsequent deviations, for acquisitions before January 1, 2010 these lead to a subsequent
adjustment of the acquisition costs not affecting income. For business combinations from
January 1, 2010, the costs that can be directly allocated to the acquisition as well as subsequent deviations in the present value of expected residual purchase prices are recognized
in the income statement pursuant to the application of the amended IFRS 3.
With respect to the remaining controlling interests, losses attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the latter even if this results in a negative balance in non-controlling
interests.
Receivables within the Group are offset against internal liabilities. As a general rule, any
set-off differences arising from exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in the income
statement to the extent that they accrued during the reporting period. If receivables and liabilities are long-term and capital-replacing in nature, the currency difference is recognized
directly in equity and in “Other result”.
In the course of the expense and income consolidation, inter-company sales and intragroup income are offset against the expenses attributable to them. Interim profits not yet
124 | PUMA TRAINING

realized within the Group and intra-group investment income are eliminated by crediting
them in the income statement.
GROUP OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES In addition to PUMA SE, all subsidiaries in which
PUMA SE, directly or indirectly, has existing rights that give it the ability to direct their main
activities are fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements. Currently the possibility of control for all Group companies is based on a direct or indirect majority of the voting rights. Associated companies are accounted for in the Group using the equity method.
The changes in the number of Group companies (including the parent company PUMA SE)
were as follows:

T.9
As of 12/31/2014
Formation of companies 2015
Disposal of companies 2015
As of 12 /31/2015

117
3
10
110

The following changes occurred within the group of consolidated companies in financial
year 2015:
The additions to the group of consolidated companies relates to the establishment of the
companies Dobotex International B.V., Branded Sports Merchandising B.V., and Importationes Brand Plus Licensing S.A. de C.V.
The disposals in the group of consolidated companies relate to the closing of the companies
Brandon Germany GmbH, PUMA Hungary Kft. and PUMA Serbia DOO and the sale of the
companies Tretorn Finland Oy, Tretorn R&D Ltd., Tretorn Norway AS, and Hunt Sport AB.
In addition, the companies PUMA Speedcat SAS, PUMA Blue Sea Ltd. and PUMA Schweiz
AG left the group of consolidated companies due to mergers.
These changes in the group of consolidated companies did not have a significant effect on
the net assets, financial position, and results of operations.
PUMA Vertrieb GmbH, PUMA Mostro GmbH, PUMA Sprint GmbH, PUMA International Trading GmbH and
PUMA Europe GmbH have made use of the exemption under Section 264 (3) of the HGB.

The Group companies are allocated to regions as follows:
as of Dec 31st 2015

T.10

No. Companies/Legal Entities

Country

City

Shareholder

Share in
capital

Parent Company
1. PUMA SE

31. PUMA Benelux B.V.

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

32. PUMA International Sports Marketing
B.V.

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

33. Brand Plus Licensing B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

direct

100%

34. Dobotex International B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

35. Branded Sports Merchandising B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

36. Dobotex B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

37. Dobo Logic B.V.

Netherlands

Tilburg

indirect

100%

Germany

Herzogenaurach

2. Austria PUMA Dassler Ges. m.b.H.

Austria

Salzburg

direct

100%

38. Dobotex Licensing Holding B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

100%

3. Dobotex Austria GmbH

Austria

Salzburg

indirect

100%

39. PUMA Norway AS

Norway

Oslo

indirect

100%

4. Wilderness Holdings Ltd.

Botswana

Maun

direct

20.0%

40. PUMA Polska Sp. z o.o.

Poland

Warsaw

indirect

100%

5. PUMA Sport Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia

Zagreb

indirect

100%

41. PUMA Sport Romania Srl

Romania

Bucharest

indirect

100%

6. PUMA Czech Republic s.r.o.

Czech
Republic

Prag

indirect

100%

7. PUMA Denmark A/S

Denmark

Skanderborg

indirect

100%

8. PUMA Estonia OÜ

Estonia

Tallinn

indirect

100%

EMEA

Finland

Espoo

indirect

100%

10. Brandon Oy

9. PUMA Finland Oy

Finland

Helsinki

indirect

100%

11. PUMA FRANCE SAS

France

Illkirch-Graffenstaden

indirect

100%

12. Dobotex France SAS

France

Paris

indirect

100%

13. PUMA International Trading GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

14. PUMA Europe GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

15. PUMA Vertrieb GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

16. PUMA Sprint GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

17. PUMA Mostro GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

indirect

100%

18. Dobotex Deutschland GmbH

Germany

Düsseldorf

indirect

100%

19. PUMA United Kingdom Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

20. PUMA Premier Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

21. Dobotex UK Ltd.

Great Britain

Manchester

indirect

100%

22. Branded Sports Merchandising UK Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

23. Sport Equipment Hellas S. A. of Footwear, Apparel and Sportswear u.Li.

Greece

Athens

direct

100%

100%

24. Sport Equipment TI Cyprus Ltd.

Cyprus

Nicosia

direct

100% 1

1

42. PUMA-RUS o.o.o.

Russia

Moscow

indirect

100%

43. PUMA Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia

Bratsilava

indirect

100%

44. PUMA Sports Distributors Ltd.

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

45. PUMA Sports S.A.

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

46. PUMA Iberia S.L.U

Spain

Barcelona

direct

100%

47. Dobotex Spain S.L.

Spain

Barcelona

indirect

100%

48. Brandon Company AB

Sweden

Gothenburg

direct

100%

49. Brandon AB

Sweden

Gothenburg

indirect

100%

50. Nrotert AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

direct

100%

51. PUMA Nordic AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

52. Nrotert Sweden AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

53. Mount PUMA AG (Schweiz)

Switzerland

Oensingen

direct

100%

54. PUMA Retail AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

55. Dobotex Switzerland AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

56. PUMA Spor Giyim Sananyi ve Ticaret
A.S.

Turkey

Istanbul

indirect

100%

57. PUMA Ukraine TOV

Ukraine

Kiew

indirect

100%

58. PUMA Middle East FZ LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100%

59. PUMA UAE LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100%

1

Americas

25. PUMA Italia Srl

Italy

Milan

indirect

100%

26. Dobotex Italia Srl

Italy

Milan

indirect

100%

60. Unisol S.A.

Argentina

Buenos Aires

indirect

100%

27. PUMA Sport Israel Ltd.

Israel

Hertzeliya

indirect

100%

61. PUMA Sports Ltda.

Brazil

Sao Paulo

indirect

100%

28. PUMA Baltic UAB

Lithuania

Vilnius

indirect

100%

62. PUMA Canada, Inc.

Canada

Montreal

indirect

100%

100%

63. PUMA CHILE S.A.

Chile

Santiago

direct

100%

100%

64. PUMA SERVICIOS SPA

Chile

Santiago

indirect

100%

29. PUMA Malta Ltd.

Malta

St.Julians

30. PUMA Racing Ltd.

Malta

St.Julians

indirect
indirect

PUMA TRAINING | 125

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

65. PUMA Mexico Sport S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

direct

66. Servicios Profesionales RDS S.A. de C.V. Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

99. World Cat Sourcing India Ltd.

67. Importaciones RDS S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City

direct

100%

100. PT PUMA Cat Indonesia Ltd.

Mexico

100%

98. PUMA India Retail Private Ltd.

Mexico City

India

Bangalore

indirect

100% 1

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

Indonesia

Jakarta

indirect

100%

68. Dobotex de Mexico SA de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

101. PUMA JAPAN K.K.

Japan

Tokio

indirect

100%

69. Importationes Brand Plus Licensing S.A.
de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

102. PUMA Korea Ltd.

Korea

Seoul

direct

100%

103. Dobotex Korea Ltd.

Korea

Seoul

indirect

100%

70. Distruibuidora Deportiva PUMA S.A.C.

Peru

Lima

indirect

100%

104. PUMA Sports Goods Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia

Kuala Lumpur

direct

100%

71. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA Tacna
S.A.C.

Peru

Tacna

indirect

100%

Auckland

indirect

100%

72. PUMA Retail Peru S.A.C.

Peru

Lima

indirect

100%

73. PUMA Sports LA S.A.

Uruguay

Montevideo

direct

100%

74. PUMA Suede Holding, Inc.

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

75. PUMA North America, Inc.

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

76. Brandon USA, Inc.

USA

Chicago

indirect

100%

77. COBRA Golf, Inc.

USA

Carlsbad

indirect

100%

78. PUMA Wheat Accessories, LLC

USA

San Diego

indirect

85%

79. Janed, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

80. PUMA Kids Apparel North America, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

105. PUMA New Zealand Ltd.

New Zealand

106. PUMA Sports SEA Trading Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

direct

100%

107. PUMA SEA Holding Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

indirect

100%

108. PUMA Taiwan Sports Ltd.

Taiwan

Taipei

indirect

100% 1

109. World Cat Vietnam Co. Ltd.

Vietnam

Long An
Province

indirect

100%

110. World Cat Vietnam Sourcing & Development Services Co. Ltd.

Vietnam

Ho Chi Minh City

indirect

100%

1) subsidiaries which are assigned to be economically 100% PUMA Group

Asia/Pacific
81. PUMA Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Victoria

indirect

100%

82. White Diamond Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Victoria

indirect

100%

83. White Diamond Properties Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Victoria

indirect

100%

84. Kalola Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Victoria

indirect

100%

85. Liberty China Holding Ltd.

British Virgin
Islands

indirect

100%

86. Brandon Trading (Shanghai) Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

87. PUMA China Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

88. Dobotex China Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

89. Guangzhou World Cat Information Consulting Services Company Ltd.

China

Guangzhou

indirect

100%

90. World Cat Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

91. Development Services Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

92. PUMA International Trading Services Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

93. PUMA Asia Pacific Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

94. PUMA Hong Kong Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

95. Dobotex Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

96. Brandon Hong Kong Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

97. PUMA Sports India Private Ltd.

India

indirect

100%

126 | PUMA TRAINING

Bangalore

CURRENCY CONVERSION As a general rule, monetary items in foreign currencies are converted in the individual financial statements of the Group companies at the exchange rate
valid on the balance sheet date. Any resulting currency gains and losses are immediately
recognized in the income statement. Non-monetary items are converted at historical acquisition and manufacturing costs.
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, the functional currency of which is not the
Euro, have been converted to Euros at the average exchange rates valid on the balance
sheet date. Expenses and income have been converted at the annual average exchange
rates. Any differences resulting from the currency conversion of net assets relative to exchange rates that had changed in comparison with the previous year, were adjusted against
equity.

The significant conversion rates per Euro are as follows:

ties and risks that arise from the use of the lease object are treated as finance leases. All
other leases are classified as operating leases. The lease payments from operating leases
are recorded as an expense over the term of the contract.

T.11
Currency

2015
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

2014
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

USD

1.0887

1.1095

1.2141

1.3285

HKD

8.4376

8.6014

9.4170

10.3025

JPY

131.0700

134.3140

145.2300

140.3061

GBP

0.7340

0.7258

0.7789

0.8061

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS/HEDGE ACCOUNTING Derivative financial instruments
are recognized at fair value at the time a contract is entered into and thereafter. At the time
when a hedging instrument is acquired, PUMA classifies the derivative as a hedge for a
planned transaction (cash flow hedge).
At the time when the transaction is concluded, the hedging relationship between the hedging instrument and the underlying transaction as well as the purpose of risk management
and the underlying strategy are documented. In addition, assessments as to whether the
derivatives used in the hedge accounting compensate effectively for a change in the fair
value or the cash flow of the underlying transaction are documented at the beginning of and
continuously after the hedging relationship.
Changes in the market value of derivatives that are intended and suitable for cash flow
hedges and that prove to be effective are adjusted against equity, taking into account deferred taxes. If there is no complete effectiveness, the ineffective part is recognized in the
income statement. The amounts recognized in equity are recognized in the income statement during the same period in which the hedged planned transaction affects the income
statement. If, however, a hedged future transaction results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or a liability, gains or losses previously recorded in equity are included in the
initial valuation of the acquisition costs of the respective asset or liability. The fair values of
the derivative instruments used to hedge planned transactions are shown under “Other current financial assets” or “Other current financial liabilities.”
LEASING Leases are to be classified either as finance leases or operating leases. Leases
where the Company, in its capacity as the lessee, is responsible for all significant opportuni14

G4-17

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances.
To the extent that bank deposits are not immediately required to finance current assets, they
are invested as risk-free fixed-term deposits, presently for a term of up to three months. The
total amount of cash and cash equivalents is consistent with the cash and cash equivalents
stated in the cash flow statement.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at acquisition or manufacturing costs, or at the lower
net realizable values derived from the selling price on the balance sheet date. As a general
rule, the acquisition cost of the merchandise is determined using the average cost method.
Value adjustments are adequately recorded, depending on age, seasonality and realizable
market prices, in a manner that is standard throughout the Group.
RECEIVABLES AND OTHER ASSETS Receivables and other assets are initially stated at fair
value, taking into account transaction costs, and subsequently valued at amortized acquisition cost after deduction of value adjustments. All identifiable risks with respect to value
adjustments are sufficiently accounted for in the form of individual risk assessments based
on historical values.
Adjustments are conducted in principle if, after recognition of the financial asset, there are
objective indications for an impairment that has an effect on the expected future cash flow
from that financial instrument. Significant financial difficulties of a debtor, an increased probability that a creditor becomes insolvent or enters into a clean-up procedure, or a breach
of contract, e.g., a cancellation or delay in interest payments or repayments, all count as
indicators for an existing impairment. The amount of the impairment loss corresponds to
the difference between the carrying amount and the cash value of the expected cash flows.
The non-current assets contain loans and other assets. Non-interest-bearing non-current
assets are discounted to present value if the resulting effect is significant.
NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS The investments reported under non-current financial assets
belong to the category “available for sale”. This category includes financial instruments that
are not loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments and that are not stated at fair
value in the income statement. The categories “held-to-maturity investments” and “financial
assets stated at fair value in the income statement” do not apply within the PUMA Group.
PUMA TRAINING | 127

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

All purchases and sales of non-current investments are recognized on the date of the trade.
The initial recognition of non-current investments takes place at fair value plus transaction
costs. They are also recognized in subsequent periods at fair value, if this can be reliably
determined. Unrealized gains and losses are stated in comprehensive income, taking into
account deferred taxes. When non-current investments are sold, the gain or loss is recognized in the income statement.
If there is material objective evidence of the impairment of non-current investments, these
assets are written down against income. For equity investments categorized as “available
for sale”, material objective evidence of impairment exists when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the assets below their acquisition cost. The same applies
if there is no longer an active market for listed shares.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition
cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The depreciation period depends on the expected
useful life of the respective item. The straight-line method of depreciation is applied. The
useful life depends on the type of assets involved. Buildings are subject to a useful life of
between ten and fifty years, and a useful life of between three to ten years is assumed for
moveable assets.
Repair and maintenance costs are recorded as an expense as of the date on which they
were incurred. Substantial improvements and upgrades are capitalized to the extent that the
criteria for capitalization of an asset item apply.
As a general rule, lease objects, the contractual basis of which is to be classified as a finance lease, are shown under property, plant and equipment; initially they are accounted
for at fair value or the lower present value of the minimum lease payments, and net of accumulated depreciation in subsequent accounting periods.

An impairment test of goodwill per cash-generating unit (usually the countries) is performed
once a year, as well as whenever there are indicators of impairment, and can result in an
impairment loss. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired intangible assets largely consist of concessions, intellectual property rights and similar rights. These are valued at acquisition cost, net of cumulative amortization. The useful life of intangible assets is between three and ten years and
they are subject to linear depreciation.
The item also includes acquired trademark rights, which were assumed to have an indefinite
useful life in light of the history of the brand and due to the fact that the brand is continued
by PUMA.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS Intangible assets with an indefinite or indeterminate useful life are
not subject to scheduled depreciation, but are subject to an annual impairment test. Property,
plant and equipment and other intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment if there is any indication of impairment in the value of the asset concerned. In order
to determine whether there is a requirement to recognize the impairment of an asset, the
recoverable amount of the respective asset (the higher amount of the fair value less costs to
sell and value in use) is compared with the carrying amount of the asset. If the recoverable
amount is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognized as an impairment
loss. The test for impairment is performed, if possible, at the level of the respective individual
asset, otherwise at the level of the cash-generating unit. Goodwill, on the other hand, is tested for impairment only at the cash-generating unit level. If it is determined within the scope
of the impairment test that an asset needs to be written down, then the goodwill, if any, of the
cash-generating unit is written down initially and, in a second step, the remaining amount is
distributed proportionately over the remaining assets. If the reason for the recognized impairment no longer applies, a reversal of impairment loss is recognized to the maximum amount
of the written-down acquisition cost. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill.

GOODWILL Goodwill resulting from a business acquisition is calculated based on the
difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the acquired asset and
liability items. Goodwill from acquisitions is largely attributable to the intangible infrastructure acquired and the associated opportunity to make a positive contribution to corporate
value.

Impairment tests are performed using the discounted cash flow method. To determine the
fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the expected cash flows are based on corporate planning data. Expected cash flows are discounted using an interest rate in line with
market conditions.

Goodwill amounts are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to
benefit from the synergy effects resulting from the business combination.

HOLDINGS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Associated companies represent shareholdings over
which PUMA has a significant influence, but which do not qualify as subsidiaries or joint

128 | PUMA TRAINING

ventures. Significant influence is generally assumed when PUMA holds, directly or indirectly, at least 20 percent, but less than 50 percent, of the voting rights.

the plans are funded. The fair value of plan assets is then deducted from the defined benefit
obligation in order to determine the net defined benefit liability.

Holdings in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. Here, the
shares are initially recognized at their acquisition cost and are subsequently adjusted for
the pro-rata changes in the company’s net assets that are attributable to PUMA. Any recognized goodwill is shown in the carrying amount of the associated company.

Remeasurements, resulting from actuarial profits and losses, changes in the asset ceiling
and return on plan assets (without interest on the net liability) are shown in Other Comprehensive Income. The remeasurements shown in Other Comprehensive Income are part of
the retained earnings and are no longer reclassified in the income statement. Past service
costs are included in the pension expense when they occur.

Within the scope of the impairment test, the carrying amount of a company valued at
equity is compared with its recoverable amount provided that there is an indication that
the asset has decreased in value. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying
amount, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss. If the reasons for the previously recognized impairment no longer apply, a write-up is recognized in the income
statement.
FINANCIAL DEBT, OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES As a general rule,
these items are recognized at their acquisition cost, taking into account transaction costs,
and subsequently recognized at amortized acquisition cost. Non-interest or low-interestbearing liabilities with a term of at least one year are recognized at present value, taking into
account an interest rate in line with market conditions, and are compounded until their maturity at their repayment amount. Liabilities from finance lease agreements are recognized as
of the beginning of the lease transaction at the amount of the present value of the minimum
lease amount, or at the lower fair value, and are adjusted by the repayment amount of the
lease installments.
As a general rule, current financial liabilities also include the proportion of long-term loans
that have a maximum residual term of up to one year.
PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS In addition to defined benefit plans,
some companies provide defined contribution plans, which do not result in any further obligation other than the payment of current contributions. The pension provision for defined
benefit plans is generally calculated using the projected unit credit method. This method
takes into account not only pension benefits and pension rights accrued as of the reporting
date, but also expected future salary and pension increases. The defined benefit obligation
(DBO) is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows based on a discount rate by
reference to high quality corporate bonds. The currency and estimated term of the corporate bonds are consistent with the currency and estimated term of the obligations. Some of

OTHER PROVISIONS Provisions are recognized if the Group, as a result of a past event, has
a current obligation and this obligation is likely to result in an outflow of resources with economic benefits, the amount of which can be reliably estimated. The provisions are recognized at their settlement value as determined on the basis of the best possible assessment
and are not offset by income. Provisions are discounted if the resulting effect is significant.
Provisions for the expected expenses from warranty obligations pursuant to the respective
national sales contract laws are recognized at the time of sale of the relevant products,
according to the best estimate in relation to the expenditure needed in order to fulfill the
Group’s obligation.
Provisions are also recognized to account for onerous contracts. An onerous contract is
assumed to exist where the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the contract exceed the economic
benefit arising from this contract.
Provisions for restructuring measures are also recognized if a detailed, formal restructuring plan has been produced that has created a justified expectation that the restructuring
measures will be carried out by those concerned due to its implementation starting or its
major components having been announced.
TREASURY SHARES Treasury shares are deducted from equity at their market price as of the
date of acquisition, plus incidental acquisition costs. Pursuant to the authorization of the
Annual General Meeting, treasury shares can be repurchased for any authorized purpose,
including the flexible management of the Company’s capital requirements.
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS/MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM In accordance with IFRS
2, stock-based compensation systems are recognized at fair value and recorded under
personnel costs. PUMA has stock-based compensation systems in the form of stock opPUMA TRAINING | 129

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

tions (SOP) involving compensation in shares and in the form of virtual shares with cash
compensation.
The expenses associated with the SOP are determined from the fair value of the options
as of the grant date, without taking into account the impact of non-market-oriented exercise
hurdles (e.g., forfeited options if the eligible employee leaves the Company prematurely).
The expense is recorded by distributing it as personnel costs over the vesting period until
the options are vested and is recognized as a capital reserve. Non-market-oriented exercise hurdles are adjusted in accordance with current expectations and the assessment of
expected exercisable options is reviewed on each balance sheet date. The resulting gains
and losses are recognized in the income statement and recorded through a corresponding
adjustment in equity over the remaining period up to the vesting date.
For share-based remunerations with cash compensation, a liability is recognized for the
services received and measured with its fair value upon addition. Until the debt is cleared,
its fair value is recalculated on every balance sheet date and on the settlement date and all
changes to the fair value are recognized in the income statement.
RECOGNITION OF SALES REVENUES Revenues from the sale of products (sales revenues)
are recognized at the time of the transfer of the significant opportunities and risks associated with the ownership of the goods and products sold to the buyer if it is likely that the
Group will derive the economic benefit from the sale. The amount of the recognized sales
revenues is based on the fair value of the consideration received or to be received, taking
into account returns, discounts and rebates.
ROYALTY AND COMMISSION INCOME Income from royalties is recognized in the income statement in accordance with the invoices to be submitted by the license holders. In certain
cases, values must be estimated in order to permit accounting on an accrual basis. Commission income is invoiced to the extent that the underlying purchase transaction is deemed
realized.
ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONAL EXPENSES Advertising expenses are recognized in the income statement as of the date of their accrual. As a general rule, promotional expenses
stretching over several years are recognized as an expense over the contractual term on an
accrual basis. Any expenditure surplus resulting from this allocation of expenses after the
balance sheet date is recognized in the form of an impairment of assets or a provision for
anticipated losses in the respective annual financial statements.
130 | PUMA TRAINING

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PUMA continuously develops new products in order to meet market requirements and market changes. Intangible assets are not capitalized since the criteria set forth in IAS 38 are not satisfied.
FINANCIAL RESULT The financial results include the results from associated companies as
well as interest income from financial investments and interest expense from loans. Financial results also include interest expense from discounted non-current liabilities and pension
provisions that are associated with acquisitions of business enterprises or arise from the
valuation of pension commitments.
Exchange rate effects that can be directly allocated to an underlying transaction are shown
in the respective income statement item.
INCOME TAXES Current income taxes are determined in accordance with the tax regulations
of the respective countries where the individual Group companies conduct their operations.
DEFERRED TAXES Deferred taxes resulting from temporary valuation differences between
the IFRS and tax balance sheets of individual Group companies and from consolidation
procedures are charged to each taxable entity and shown either as deferred tax assets or
deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets may also include claims for tax reductions that
result from the expected utilization of existing losses carried forward to subsequent years
and which are sufficiently certain to materialize. Deferred tax assets or liabilities may also
result from accounting treatments that do not affect net income. Deferred taxes are calculated on the basis of the tax rates that apply to the reversal in the individual countries and
that are in force or adopted as of the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are shown only to the extent that the respective tax advantage is likely
to materialize. Value adjustments are recognized on the basis of the past earnings situation
and the business expectations for the foreseeable future, if this criterion is not fulfilled.
ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires some assumptions and estimates that have an impact on the amount and disclosure
of the recognized assets and liabilities, income and expenses, as well as contingent liabilities. The assumptions and estimates are based on premises, which in turn are based on
currently available information. In individual cases, the actual values may deviate from the
assumptions and estimates made. Consequently, future periods involve a risk of adjustment
to the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities concerned. If the actual trend is different

to the expected trend, the premises and, if necessary, the carrying amounts of the assets
and liabilities involved are adjusted in the income statement.
All assumptions and estimates are continuously reassessed. They are based on historical
experiences and other factors, including expectations regarding future global and industryrelated trends that appear reasonable under the current circumstances. Assumptions and
estimates particularly arise in relation to the valuation of goodwill and brands, pension obligations, derivative financial instruments and taxes. The most significant forward-looking
assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty as of the reporting date concerning the
above-mentioned items are discussed below.
GOODWILL AND BRANDS A review of the impairment of goodwill is based on the calculation
of the value in use. In order to calculate the value in use, the Group must estimate the future cash flows from those cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. To this
end, the data used were from the relevant three-year plan, which is based on forecasts of
the overall economic development and the resulting industry-specific consumer behavior.
Another key assumption concerns the determination of an appropriate interest rate for discounting the cash flows to present value (discounted cash flow method). The “Relief from
Royalty” method is used to value brands. See paragraph 10 for further information, in particular regarding the assumptions used for the calculation.
PENSION OBLIGATIONS Pension obligations are determined using an actuarial calculation.
This calculation is contingent on a large number of factors that are based on assumptions
and estimates regarding the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, future wage
and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature
of the commitments made, the assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. Any
change in these assumptions has an impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligations. The Group determines at the end of each year the discount rate applied to determine
the present value of future payments. This discount rate is based on the interest rates of
corporate bonds with the highest credit rating that are denominated in the currency in which
the benefits are paid and the maturity of which corresponds to that of the pension obligations. See paragraph 15 for further information, in particular regarding the parameters used
for the calculation.

other hand. As an effect of tax audits, different interpretations of tax laws may result in additional tax payments for prior years and are taken into account based on management’s
considerations.
The recognition of deferred taxes, in particular with respect to tax loss carryforwards, requires that estimates and assumptions be made concerning future tax planning strategies
as well as the expected date of initial recognition and the amount of future taxable income.
The taxable income from the relevant corporate plan is derived for this judgment. This
takes into account the past financial position and the business development expected in
the future. Active deferred tax assets on losses carried forward are recorded for companies
incurring a loss only if it is highly likely that future positive income will be achieved that can
be offset against these tax loss carryforwards. Please see paragraph 8 for further information and detailed assumptions.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The assumptions used for the valuation of derivative
financial instruments are based on the prevailing market conditions as of the balance sheet
date and thus reflect the fair value. See paragraph 24 for further information.

3. Cash and cash equivalents
As of December 31, 2015, the Group had €338.8 million (previous year: €401.5 million) in
cash and cash equivalents. The average effective interest rate of financial investments was
virtually unchanged from the previous year at 0.3%. There are no restrictions on disposition.

TAXES Tax items are determined by taking into account prevailing local tax laws and the
relevant administrative opinions and, due to their complexity, may be subject to different
interpretations by persons subject to tax, on the one hand, and the tax authorities, on the
PUMA TRAINING | 131

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

4. Inventories

Allowances for trade receivables changed as follows:

Inventories are allocated to the following main groups:
T.14
T.12

Raw materials, consumables and supplies

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

19.9

17.6

Finished goods and merchandise/inventory

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

39.4

53.9

Exchange rate differences

0.3

0.2

Allocations

7.3

10.9

Status of value adjustments as of January 1

Footwear

218.6

166.1

Utilization

-6.0

-19.6

Apparel

177.3

153.5

Reversals

-2.2

-6.0

Accessories /Other

102.6

88.1

Status of value adjustments as of December 31

38.8

39.4

Goods in transit

138.6

146.2

Total

657.0

571.5

The table shows the carrying amount of the inventories net of value adjustments. Of the value adjustments of €48.2 million (previous year: €62.5 million), approx. 72% (previous year
approx. 69%) were recognized as expense under cost of sales in the 2015 financial year.
The amount of inventories recorded as an expense during the period mainly includes the
cost of sales shown in the consolidated income statement.

The age structure of the trade receivables is as follows:

T.15
Gross values 2015
Total

€ million

521.9

of which not written down
Not due

0–30
days

31–60
days

61–90
days

91–180
days

over 180
days

344.2

40.9

20.7

8.2

6.1

2.7

of which
written down
99.1

5. Trade Receivables
This item consists of:

T.16
Gross values 2014
Total

T.13
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Trade receivables, gross

521.9

488.6

Less value adjustments

-38.8

-39.4

Trade receivables, net

483.1

449.2

132 | PUMA TRAINING

€ million

488.6

of which not written down
Not due

0–30
days

31–60
days

61–90
days

91–180
days

over 180
days

312.4

39.8

15.0

6.9

5.5

1.2

of which
written down
107.8

With respect to trade receivables that were not written down, PUMA assumes that the debtors
will satisfy their payment obligations.

6. Other Current Financial Assets

8. Deferred Taxes

This item consists of:

Deferred taxes relate to the items shown below:

T.17

T.19

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

51.0

58.0

Tax losses carryforwards

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

119.1

98.4

33.0

28.4

Other financial assets

25.8

35.6

Non-current assets

Total

76.8

93.6

Current assets

32.9

24.9

Provisions and other liabilities

66.0

67.8

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying amount.

7. Other Current Assets
This item consists of:

Deferred tax assets (before netting)

251.0

219.5

Non-current assets

76.9

74.8

Current assets

14.5

20.1

4.0

0.3

Provisions and other liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (before netting)
Deferred tax assets, net

T.18
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Prepaid expense relating to the subsequent period

35.5

35.9

Other receivables

43.1

55.9

Total

78.6

91.8

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying
amount.
Other receivables mainly include VAT receivables amounting to €15.7 million (previous
year: €24.8 million).

95.4

95.2

155.6

124.3

Of the deferred tax assets, €87.7 million (previous year: €75.3 million) and, of the deferred
tax liabilities, €17.6 million (previous year: €20.4 million) are current.
As of December 31, 2015, tax loss carryforwards amounted to a total of €675.0 million
(previous year: €566.2 million). This results in a deferred tax asset of €192.1 million (previous year: €160.8 million). Deferred tax receivables were recognized for these items in the
amount at which the associated tax advantages are likely to be realized in the form of future
taxable profits. Accordingly, deferred tax receivables for tax losses of €73.0 million (previous year: €62.4 million) have not been recognized; these are non-forfeitable. In addition,
no deferred taxes were recognized for deductible temporary differences amounting to €5.9
million (previous year: €6.8 million).
Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes from possible dividends on retained earnings
of subsidiaries that serve to cover the financing needs of the respective company were not
recognized, since it is most likely that such temporary differences will not be cleared in the
near future.

PUMA TRAINING | 133

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to a taxable entity and can in fact
be netted. Accordingly, they are shown in the balance sheet as follows:

9. Property, Plant and Equipment

T.20

T.23

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets, net

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

219.8

178.8

64.2

54.5

155.6

124.3

Property, plant and equipment at their carrying amounts consist of:

Land and buildings, including buildings on third-party land
Technical equipment and machinery
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Assets under construction

The changes in deferred tax assets were as follows:

Total

T.21
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

178.8

164.2

Recognition in the income statement

30.9

19.9

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income

10.1

-5.3

219.8

178.8

Deferred tax assets, previous year

Deferred tax assets

The changes in deferred tax liabilities were as follows:

2014
€ million

111.6

105.9

11.9

11.7

105.1

95.1

4.0

11.3

232.6

224.0

The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is derived from the acquisition costs.
Cumulative depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to €280.6 million (previous year: €267.0 million).
Property, plant and equipment include lease assets (finance lease) of €0.7 million (previous
year: € 0.6 million).
The changes in property, plant and equipment in the 2015 financial year are shown in
“Changes in fixed assets”. There were no impairment losses that exceeded current depreciation during the reporting year (previous year: €0.3 million).

10. Intangible Assets
This item mainly includes goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite or indeterminate useful
lives and assets associated with the Company’s own retail activities.

T.22
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Deferred tax liabilities, previous year

54.5

50.3

Recognition in the income statement

3.0

-1.4

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income

6.7

5.6

64.2

54.5

Deferred tax liabilities

2015
€ million

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite or indeterminate useful lives are not subject
to scheduled amortization. Impairment tests were performed in the past financial year using
the discounted cash flow method. This was based on data from the respective three-year
plan. The recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use; no impairment losses resulted.
The cash-generating unit ‘Tretorn’ includes total goodwill before impairment of €6.6 million
(previous year: € 6.6 million). This is allocated to the EMEA segment. Due to the sale of the

134 | PUMA TRAINING

Tretorn market rights, the goodwill of €6.6 million was divested. The effect on income from
the sale is included in the item “Other operating income and expenses” in the consolidated
income statement.
The cash-generating unit ‘CPG – COBRA PUMA Golf’ includes intangible assets in association with the COBRA brand, with an indefinite or indeterminate useful life of €130.6
million (previous year: €117.2 million). The intangible assets are significant in comparison
to the overall carrying amount of the intangible assets with an indefinite or indeterminate
useful life. This is allocated to the Central Unit segment. The recoverable amount of the
COBRA brand (Level 3) was determined on the basis of the “relief from royalty” method. As
in the previous year, this calculation assumed a royalty rate of 8 %, a 3% growth rate and a
discount rate of 6.8% p.a. (previous year 7.2%).
The changes in intangible assets in the 2015 financial year are shown in “Changes in fixed
assets”. Other intangible assets include advance payments of €0.5 million (previous year:
€5.6 million). There were no impairment losses that exceeded current depreciation (previous year: €7.0 million).
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s identifiable cash-generating units (CGUs) according to
the country where the activity is carried out. Summarized by regions, goodwill is allocated
as follows:

T.24
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

143.4

150.3

Americas

40.0

39.6

Asia/Pacific

56.9

51.8

240.3

241.7

EMEA (including Dobotex)

Total

Assumptions used in conducting the impairment test in 2015:

T.25
Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

24.5%-25.0%

7.8%-8.4%

6.3%-6.8%

28.0%

16.2%

12.3%

24.5%-28.0%

7.8%-16.2%

6.3%-12.3%

28.3%

8.1%

6.5%

Latin America

18.5%-35.0%

9.4%-27.2%

8.1%-25.6%

Americas

18.5%-35.0%

8.1%-27.2%

6.5%-25.6%

Asia/Pacific

17.0%-30.0%

8.0%-10.3%

6.7%-8.1%

EEA
EEMEA*
EMEA
North America*

* Information for each of the EEMEA and North America regions relates solely to one cash-generating
unit (CGU)

A growth rate of 3% is generally assumed, and a growth rate of under 3% has only been
used in exceptional cases where this is justified.
The cash-generating unit ‘Dobotex’ includes goodwill of €139.4 million (previous year:
€139.4 million), which is significant in comparison to the overall carrying amount of the
goodwill. The cash-generating unit corresponds to a business unit at PUMA that was allocated to the Central Unit segment. The recoverable amount was determined by calculating
value in use, using a discount rate of 6.3% p.a. (previous year: 7.1% p.a.) and a growth rate
of 2% (previous year: 2%).
Sensitivity analyses related to the performed impairment tests as of the balance sheet date
indicate that neither a one percentage point increase in the discount rate nor a one percentage point decrease in the growth rate result in an impairment of goodwill or of intangible
assets with an indefinite or indeterminate useful life. Accordingly, the sensitivity analyses
with a one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate and the sensitivity analyses with
a one-percentage-point reduction in the growth rate do not show any indication of impairment.

PUMA TRAINING | 135

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The following table contains the assumptions for the performance of the impairment test in
the previous year:

PUMA’s share of the net earnings of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. amounts to €1.0 million (previous year: €1.3 million).

T.26

The balance sheet date of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is February 28, 2016. The information
stated above relates to the company’s financial information as of December 31.
Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

EEA

24.5%-26.3%

8.7%-9.6%

7.1%-7.7%

EEMEA

20.0%-28.0%

17.2%-20.3%

12.8%-14.5%

EMEA

20.0%-28.0%

8.7%-20.3%

7.1%-14.5%

North America

28.3%-37.0%

8.0%-9.0%

7.2%

Latin America

18.5%-35.0%

10.4%-37.0%

9.0%-24.3%

Americas

18.5%-37.0%

8.0%-37.0%

7.2%-24.3%

Asia/Pacific

17.0%-30.0%

9.0%-11.5%

7.9%-9.0%

A growth rate of 3% is generally assumed, and a growth rate of under 3% has only been
used in exceptional cases where this is justified.

11. Holdings in Associated Companies
The 20.0% interest in Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is shown under Holdings in associated companies. The carrying amount of the shares is unchanged from the previous year at €15.2
million.
The following overview shows the aggregated benchmark data of the associated companies recognized at equity. The values represent the values based on the entire company
and do not relate to the shares attributable to the PUMA Group.

Other non-current financial and non-financial assets consist of:

T.28
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Non-current investments

18.5

17.9

Other financial assets

20.8

16.7

Total of other non-current financial assets

39.3

34.6

Other non-current non-financial assets

25.2

23.4

Other non-current assets, total

64.5

58.0

The non-current investments relate to the 5% share of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co.
KGaA (BVB).
Other financial assets mainly include rental deposits of €18.8 million (previous year: €14.2
million). The other non-current non-financial assets mainly include deferrals in connection
with promotional and advertising agreements.
In the 2015 financial year, there were no indicators of impairment of other non-current assets.

T.27
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Gains relating to continuing operations

4.8

6.3

Other result

0.0

0.0

Comprehensive income

4.8

6.3

136 | PUMA TRAINING

12. Other Non-Current Assets

13. Liabilities
The residual terms of the liabilities are as follows:

T.29
2015

2014

Residual term of
Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

14.0

19.8

19.8

519.7

519.7

515.2

515.2

3.0

3.0

3.0

0.5

33.9

33.9

31.9

31.9

6.3

6.3

5.6

5.6

Payables to employees

70.7

70.7

57.7

57.7

Liabilities from market valuation of forward exchange
transactions

18.7

18.7

8.3

8.3

0.5

0.5

0.4

0.4

120.2

110.8

9.4

57.5

54.8

2.7

787.0

777.6

9.4

699.4

694.2

5.2

Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from acquisitions of business enterprises

Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

14.0

Residual term of

1 to 5 years
€ million

over 5 years
€ million

1 to 5 years
€ million

over 5 years
€ million

2.5

Other liabilities
Liabilities from other taxes
Liabilities relating to social security

Liabilities from leases
Other liabilities
Total

PUMA has confirmed credit facilities totaling €401.7 million (previous year: €343.2 million).
Of the financial liabilities of €95.6 million (previous year: €19.8 million), of which none (previous year: €1.0 million) was claimed from credit facilities only granted until further notice. The
unused credit facilities as of December 31, 2015 amounted to €306.0 million, compared to
€324.4 million the previous year.

0.0

0.0

The effective interest rate of the financial liabilities ranged between 0.6% and 12.2% (previous year: 0.5% and 14.2%).

PUMA TRAINING | 137

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The table below shows the cash flows of the original financial liabilities and of the derivative
financial instruments with a positive and negative fair value:
T.30

Liabilities to banks can be repaid at any time.

Cash Flows from Non-Derivative and Derivative Financial Liabilities
Carrying
amount
2015
€ million

Cash flow for 2016
Interest
€ million

Cash flow for 2017

Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Cash flow for 2018 et seqq.

Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from finance leases
Purchase price liabilities
Other liabilities

14.0

14.0

519.7

519.7

0.5

0.5

3.0

3.0

104.2

104.2

Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – inflow
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – outflow

7.0

1,491.2

264.8

1,465.1

260.0

The following values were determined in the previous year:
T.31

Cash Flows from Non-Derivative and Derivative Financial Liabilities
Carrying
amount
2014
€ million

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities

Cash flow for 2015

Cash flow for 2016

Interest
€ million

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

19.8

19.8

515.2

515.2

Liabilities from finance leases

0.4

0.4

Purchase price liabilities

3.0

0.5

42.6

42.6

Trade payables

Other liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – inflow
Currency forward contracts with cash flow hedges – outflow

138 | PUMA TRAINING

Cash flow for 2017 et seqq.

Repayment
€ million

2.5

862.4

54.3

815.1

54.3

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

14. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that are valued at fair value in the balance sheet were determined
using the following hierarchy:

T.32

Level 1: 	Use of prices quoted on active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: 	Use of input factors that do not involve the quoted prices stated under Level 1, but
can be observed for the asset or liability either directly (i.e., as price) or indirectly
(i.e., derivation of prices).
Level 3: 	Use of factors for the valuation of the asset or liability that are based on nonobservable market data.

Measurement
categories
under IAS 39

Carrying
Amount

Fair
Value

2015
€ million

Carrying
Amount
2014
€ million

Fair
Value
2014
€ million

2015
€ million

)LAR

338.8

338.8

401.5

401.5

Trade receivables

LAR

483.1

483.1

449.2

449.2

Other current financial assets

LAR

25.9

25.9

35.6

35.6

Derivatives with hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

46.5

46.5

57.6

57.6

hft

4.5

4.5

0.4

0.4

LAR

20.8

20.8

16.7

16.7

AfS

18.5

18.5

17.9

17.9

OL

14.0

14.0

19.8

19.8

Trade payables

OL

519.7

519.7

515.2

515.2

Purchase price liabilities

OL

3.0

3.0

3.0

3.0

n.a.

0.5

0.5

0.4

0.4

Other financial liabilities

OL

104.2

104.2

42.6

42.6

Derivatives with hedging
relationship (fair value)

n.a.

16.1

16.1

8.3

8.3

hft

2.7

2.7

0.0

0.0

Total LAR

868.6

868.6

903.0

903.0

Total OL

640.9

640.9

580.6

580.6

Total AfS

18.5

18.5

17.9

17.9

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

1

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)
Other non-current fin. assets
Non-current investments
Liabilities
Financial liabilities

Liabilities from leases

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)

1)

3)

2)

LAR: Loans and Receivables; 2) OL: Other Liabilities; 3) AfS: Available for Sale

The fair values of the financial assets in the “available-for-sale” category (AfS) were determined on the basis of Level 1. The market values of derivative assets or liabilities were
determined on the basis of Level 2.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other receivables have a short residual
maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount corresponds to fair value. Receivables are stated at nominal value, taking into account deductions for default risk.
Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount of loans receivable corresponds
to fair value.
The fair value of other financial assets corresponds to their carrying amounts, taking into account prevailing market interest rates. Other financial assets include €25.1 million (previous
year: €16.2 million) that was pledged as rental deposits at usual market rates.
Liabilities to banks can be terminated at any time and, thus, have a short maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount corresponds to fair value.
Trade payables have a short residual maturity. The recognized values approximate fair value.
Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisitions
of business enterprises lead to prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts were
discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment. As of the end of the financial year, the market interest rate only affects one company
and is unchanged from the previous year at 2.3%.
The fair values of other financial liabilities are determined based on the present values, taking into account the prevailing interest rate parameters.
PUMA TRAINING | 139

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The fair value of derivatives with hedging relationships as of the balance sheet date is determined taking into account the prevailing market parameters. The discounted result of the
comparison of the forward price on the reporting date with the forward price on the valuation
date is included in the valuation.
Net income by valuation categories:

2014
€ million

25.6

6.7

-43.9

-17.6

Derivatives without hedging relationship

2.1

1.2

Non-current financial assets (AfS)

0.6

-3.5

-15.6

-13.2

Total

UK

Other
Companies

PUMA
Group

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

Annuity

0.0

37.9

6.9

44.8

Lump sum payment

0.0

0.0

5.3

5.3

17.8

0.0

0.0

17.8

6.4

0.0

0.0

6.4

Salary-based obligations

2015
€ million

Other liabilities (OL)

Germany

Present value of the defined benefit
obligation 12/31/2015

T.33

Loans and receivables (LAR)

T.34

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
Lump sum payment

The following values were determined in the previous year:

T.35

The net income was determined by taking into account interest rates, currency exchange
effects, impairment losses, and gains and losses from sales.
General administrative expenses include write-downs of receivables.

15. Pension Provisions
Pension provisions result from statutory or contractual benefits, depending on the country,
which are granted in the event of invalidity, death or when a certain retirement age has been
reached. Pension liabilities in the PUMA Group result either from defined benefit or defined
contribution plans and comprise pensions payable both now and in the future. Pension
plans are financed internally or via external pension funds.

Germany

UK

Other
Companies

PUMA
Group

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

€ milion

Annuity

0.0

35.2

7.6

42.8

Lump sum payment

0.0

0.0

4.6

4.6

17.3

0.0

0.0

17.3

6.2

0.0

0.0

6.2

Present value of the defined benefit
obligation 12/31/2014
Salary-based obligations

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
Lump sum payment

The risks associated with the pension plans are typical risks of defined benefit plans –
mainly possible changes in the discount rate and, to a minor degree, inflation rates and
longevity. In order to limit the risks of changed capital market conditions and demographic
changes the pension plans in the countries with the main liabilities, Germany and the UK,
were closed to new hires a few years ago or are fully insured.

140 | PUMA TRAINING

The main plan rules are described below:
The general pension agreement of PUMA SE provides benefits amounting to €127.82 per
month as a maximum. This plan was closed for new hires from 1996 onwards. For some

employees, individual pension agreements apply under which higher fixed pension amounts
are granted. In addition, there are individual contribution based programs (to some extent
deferred compensation) which are fully insured. There are no statutory minimum funding requirements. The defined benefit obligation for the German pension arrangements amounts
to €24.2 million or 32.6% of the total obligation at the end of 2015. The fair value of plan
assets for these arrangements amounts to €13.0 million. The corresponding balance sheet
liability amounts to €11.2 million.

The changes in the plan assets are as follows:

T.37

Fair value of plan asset January 1

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

45.0

40.7

The defined benefit scheme in the United Kingdom has been closed to new entrants since
2006. Benefits are provided in the event of disability, death, or upon retirement and are
based on salary and length of service with the company. Benefits are paid as annuities or
can be converted partly into lump sum payments. There are statutory minimum funding
requirements. The defined benefit obligation for the UK pension scheme amounted to €37.9
million, or 51.0% of the total obligation, at the end of 2015. The corresponding balance sheet
liability amounts to €34.2 million. The provision is €3.7 million.

Interest income on plan assets

1.6

1.6

Actuarial profits and losses (-)

0.8

0.9

Employer contributions

2.3

2.2

Employee contributions

0.3

0.4

-1.6

-2.8

0.0

0.0

The present value of the defined benefit obligation is set out below:

Fair value of plan assets December 31

Benefits paid
Transfers In / (Out)
Exchange rate changes

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

70.9

68.8

2.7

2.5

-0.1

0.2

Gains (-) and losses from plan settlements

0.0

-3.1

Interest expense on defined benefit obligation

2.3

2.6

Funded status

0.3

0.4

Effect of asset ceiling

Benefits paid

-2.3

-7.4

Transfers In / (Out)

-1.2

-0.1

Actuarial profits (-) and losses

-1.0

4.9

2.7

2.1

74.3

70.9

Service Cost
Past service cost

Employee contributions

Exchange rate changes
Present value of the defined benefit obligation December 31

2.0
45.0

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

74.3

70.9

-50.7

-45.0

23.6

25.9

0.0

0.0

23.6

25.9

The reconciliation of the pension liability is shown below:

T.36

Present value of the defined benefit obligation January 1

2.3
50.7

T.38

Present value of the defined benefit obligation
Fair value of plan assets

Balance sheet liability December 31

In 2015, benefits paid amounted to €2.3 million (previous year: €7.4 million). Payments in
2016 are expected to amount to €1.9 million. Of these, €0.9 million is expected to be paid
directly by the employer. In 2015, contributions to external plan assets amounted to €2.3
million (previous year: €2.2 million). Contributions in 2016 are expected to amount to €2.0
million.

PUMA TRAINING | 141

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The changes in balance sheet liability are as follows:

Actuarial profits and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income:

T.39

T.41

Balance sheet liability January 1
Pension expense

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

25.9

28.1

3.4

0.7

Actuarial gains (-) and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income

-1.7

4.0

Employer contributions

-2.3

-2.2

Benefits paid by the employer

-0.9

-4.8

Transfer In / (Out)

-1.2

-0.1

Exchange rate changes
Balance sheet liability December 31
Thereof pension assets
Thereof pension liabilities

0.4

0.1

23.6

25.9

0.2

0.1

23.8

26.0

Components of pension expense for the 2015 financial year are as follows:

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

-1.0

4.9

Actuarial profits (-) and losses resulting from changes in
demographic assumptions

-2.2

0.0

Actuarial profits (-) and losses resulting from changes in
financial assumptions

0.8

4.9

Actuarial profits (-) and losses due to adjustments based on
experience

0.4

0.0

-0.8

-0.9

Effect of asset ceiling

0.0

0.0

Adjustment of administrative costs

0.1

0.0

-1.7

4.0

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

0.1

0.1

Remeasurements relating to Defined Benefit Obligation

Remeasurements relating to plan assets

Total remeasurements
(included in Other Comprehensive Income)

Plan asset investment categories:
T.40

Service Cost
Past service cost

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2.7

2.5

-0.1

0.2

Effect of settlements

0.0

-3.1

Interest expense on defined benefit obligation

2.3

2.6

-1.6

-1.6

Administration costs

0.1

0.1

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans

3.4

0.7

Employer Contributions for Defined Contribution Plans

10.6

8.9

Total Expenses for Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution
Plans

14.0

9.6

Interest income on plan assets

of which personnel costs
of which financial costs
142 | PUMA TRAINING

T.42

Cash and cash equivalents
Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

12.4

11.0

Investment funds

19.6

17.6

4.2

3.6

13.1

11.7

1.2

0.9

50.7

45.0

Real estate
Insurance
Other
Total Plan Assets

13.3

8.6

0.7

1.0

Of which investment categories with a quoted market price:

The assumptions stated above are a weighted average of the assumptions of the individual
plans. The discount rate for all Euro zone countries was 2.00% (previous year 2.00%).

T.43

The following overview shows how the present value of the defined benefit obligation would
have been affected by changes to the most significant actuarial assumption.

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Cash and cash equivalents

0.1

0.1

Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

12.4

11.0

Investment funds

T.45
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

19.4

17.4

Real estate

3.9

3.3

Insurance

0.0

0.0

the discount rate was 50 basis points higher

-6.4

-6.2

0.0

0.0

the discount rate was 50 basis points lower

5.6

6.0

35.9

31.9

Other
Plan Assets with a Quoted Market Price

As in the previous year, plan assets do not include any Group’s own financial instruments or
real estate used by Group companies.

Effect on present value of defined benefit obligation if

Changes in salary and pension increase rates only have a negligible effect on the present
value of the defined benefit obligation due to the structure of the benefit plans.
The weighted average duration of the pension obligations is 19 years.

The plan assets are used solely to fulfill the pension claims. There are legal funding requirements in some countries; in other countries (for example Germany) there are no rules as
to how and to what extent pension plans have to be funded. In the UK, a board of trustees
made up of Company representatives and employees is in charge of asset management.
The UK investment strategy is aimed at long-term profits and low volatility.

16. Other Provisions
T.46
2014
Addition

Utilization

Reversal

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

Warranties

9.5

0.5

1.4

-2.9

Purchasing risks

6.9

6.1

-4.6

-0.9

7.5

The following assumptions were used to determine defined benefit obligations and pension
expense:

T.44

2015
Currency
adjustments,
retransfers

€ million

Provisions for:

2015

2014

Discount rate

3.11%

3.16%

Future pension increase rate

2.35%

2.42%

Future salary increase rate

4.00%

3.91%

8.5

Other

76.2

1.1

24.7

-32.5

-9.3

60.2

Total

92.6

1.6

32.2

-40.0

-10.2

76.2

PUMA TRAINING | 143

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

The warranty provision is determined on the basis of the historical value of sales generated
during the past six months. It is expected that the majority of these expenses will fall due
within the first six months of the next financial year. The provision for warranties includes
€ 3.7 million for non-current provisions (previous year: € 3.6 million).
Purchasing risks relate primarily to materials and molds that are required for the manufacturing of shoes. The provision will probably result in a payment in the following year.
Other provisions consist primarily of €27.8 million for risks associated with legal disputes
(previous year: €30.0 million), €2.4 million for restructuring (previous year: €11.0 million),
and €30.0 provisions for anticipated losses from pending business and other risks (previous
year: €35.2 million). Other provisions includes non-current provisions amounting to €19.8
million (previous year: €19.5 million).

17. Liabilities from the Acquisition of Business Entities

Changes in the circulating shares:

T.48
2015

2014

Circulating shares as of January 1

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Conversion from Management Incentive Program

share

0

0

Share buy-back

share

0

0

Circulating shares as of December 31

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

CAPITAL RESERVE The capital reserve includes the premium from issuing shares, as well as
amounts from the grant, conversion and expiration of share options.

Pursuant to the contracts entered into, purchase price liabilities associated with acquisitions
of business enterprises lead to prorated payments. The resulting nominal amounts were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment.

RETAINED EARNINGS AND NET PROFIT Retained earnings and net profit include the net income of the financial year as well as the income of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements achieved in the past to the extent that it was not distributed.

The purchase price liabilities consist of:

RESERVE FROM THE DIFFERENCE RESULTING FROM CURRENCY CONVERSION The equity item
for currency conversion serves to record the differences from the conversion of the financial statements of subsidiaries with non-Euro accounting compared to the date of first-time
consolidation of the subsidiaries.

T.47
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Due within one year

3.0

0.5

Due in more than one year

0.0

2.5

Total

3.0

3.0

18. Shareholders’ Equity
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL The subscribed capital corresponds to the subscribed capital of
PUMA SE. As of the balance sheet date, the subscribed capital amounted to €38.6 million
and is divided into 15,082,464 bearer shares. Each no-par-value share corresponds to €2.56
of the subscribed capital (share capital).

144 | PUMA TRAINING

CASH FLOW HEDGES The Cash flow hedges item includes the market valuation of derivative
financial instruments. The item includes €21.2 million (previous year: €34.6 million), which
is offset against deferred taxes amounting to €-5.3 million (previous year: €-13.5 million).
TREASURY SHARES The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015
authorized the company to purchase its own shares up to a value of ten percent of the share
capital until May 5, 2020. If purchased through the stock exchange, the purchase price per
share may not exceed or fall below 10% of the average closing price for the Company’s
shares with the same attributes in the XETRA trading system (or a comparable successor
system) during the last three trading days prior to the date of purchase.
The Company did not make use of the authorization to purchase treasury shares during
the reporting period. As in the previous year, as of the balance sheet date, the Company

holds a total of 142,551 PUMA shares in its own portfolio, which corresponds to 0.95% of
the subscribed capital.
AUTHORIZED CAPITAL Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated April
24, 2012, the Administrative Board is authorized to increase the share capital by April 23,
2017 as follows:

The Managing Directors recommend to the Administrative Board and the Annual General
Meeting that a dividend of €0.50 per circulating share, or a total of €7.5 million (with respect
to the circulating shares as of December 31), be distributed to the shareholders from the net
income of PUMA SE for financial year 2015. This corresponds to a payout ratio of 20.2%
relative to consolidated net income compared to 11.7% in the previous year.
Appropriation of the Net Income of PUMA SE:

A)	By issuing up to €7.5 million worth of up to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares on
one or more occasions with a pro-rata amount of the share capital of €2.56 per share
in exchange for cash contributions. The new shares can also be acquired by one or
several banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation
to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). The
shareholders are basically entitled to a subscription right, whereby the shareholders’
subscription right may be barred to avoid fractional amounts (Authorized Capital I).

T.49

Net income of PUMA SE as of December 31
Dividends per share
Number of circulating shares *

B)	By issuing up to €7.5 million worth of up to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares on one
or more occasions with a pro-rata amount of the share capital of €2.56 per share in exchange for cash contributions. The new shares can also be acquired by one or several
banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation to offer these
to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). Shareholders have, in
principle, a subscription right whereby the shareholders’ subscription right may be wholly
or partially barred to avoid fractional shares (Subscribed Capital II).
CONDITIONAL CAPITAL Pursuant to the resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting of
April 22, 2008, the share capital could be increased by up to €1.5 million through the issuance of up to 600,000 new shares. The contingent capital increase was meant to be used
exclusively for granting subscription rights (stock options) to former members of the Board
and the Managing Directors of the Company as well as other executives of the company and
subordinate associated companies. The authorization period has expired. Section 4.4. of
the Articles of the Company will be deleted upon a respective resolution of the Administrative Board of the Company.
DIVIDENDS The amounts eligible for distribution relate to the net income of PUMA SE, which
is determined in accordance with German commercial law.

2015

2014

€ million

134.3

60.7

€

0.50

0.50

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Total dividend *

€ million

7.5

7.5

Carried forward to the new accounting period *

€ million

126.8

53.2

* Previous year‘s values adjusted to the outcome of the Annual General Meeting

NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
The non-controlling interest remaining as of the balance sheet date relates to PUMA Wheat
Accessories, LLC with €-0.5 million (previous year: €0.1 million), Janed, LLC with €7.2 million (previous year: €22.6 million) and PUMA Kids Apparel North America, LLC, with €1.3
million (previous year: €0.4 million).
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objective is to retain a strong equity base in order to both maintain investor and
market confidence and strengthen future business performance.
Capital management relates to the consolidated equity of PUMA. This is shown in the consolidated balance sheet as well as the reconciliation statement under Changes in equity.

PUMA TRAINING | 145

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

19. Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program

The following parameters were used to determine the fair value:

In order to provide long-term incentives and thereby retain the management staff in the
Company, PUMA uses stock-based compensation systems in the form of stock option programs (SOP) and in the form of virtual shares with cash compensation.

T.50

SOP

The current programs are described below:
EXPLANATION OF “SOP” Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of April
22, 2008, a stock option program, “SOP 2008”, was accepted in the form of a “Performance
Share Program”. Conditional capital was created for this purpose and the Supervisory
Board and the Board of Management of PUMA AG (as of July 25, 2011 change of form into
an SE) were authorized to grant subscription rights to the members of the Board of Management and other executives of the Company and of affiliated subsidiary companies for five
years (after the registration of the conditional capital in the commercial register), but for at
least three months after the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The term of the subscription rights issued or to be issued is five years and these subscription rights can be exercised after two years at the earliest, provided, however, that the price
of the PUMA share has increased by at least 20% since the grant date. In contrast to traditional stock option programs, the equivalent amount of the increase in value of the PUMA
share since the grant date is serviced with shares, whereby the beneficiary pays an option
price of €2.56 per share granted if the share was issued as part of a capital increase. If
employees leave the company, then their options rights expire.
Furthermore, pursuant to the authorization, the Administrative Board, in accordance with
the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, may limit, fully or partially, the scope and contents of subscription rights granted to the company’s Managing
Directors in the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments. This authorization also
applies to the Managing Directors with respect to the other executive staff concerned.

Share price as of the grant date
Expected volatility

146 | PUMA TRAINING

2008
Tranche II

2008
Tranche III

2008
Tranche IV

2008
Tranche V

€199.27

€147.27

€250.50

€199.95

€265.00

29.1%

47.7%

34.5%

29.2%

26.8%

Expected dividend payment

1.50%

2.31%

1.30%

1.30%

0.8%

Risk-free interest rate Former
members of the Board of Management/ current Managing Directors

4.60%

1.97%

1.60%

2.40%

0.3%

Risk-free interest rate

4.60%

1.97%

1.60%

2.40%

0.3%

The historical volatility during the year prior to the date of valuation was used to determine
the expected volatility.
Changes in the “SOP” during the financial year:

T.51

SOP

Issue date
Amount issued

2008
Tranche I

2008
Tranche II

2008
Tranche III

2008
Tranche IV

2008
Tranche V

21.07.2008

14.04.2009

22.04.2010

15.04.2011

30.04.2012

113,000

139,002

126,184

151,290

145,375

Exercise price

€0.00

€0.00

€2.56

€2.56

€2.56

Residual term

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.29 years

1.33 years

0

0

98,693

103,463

113,469

Circulating as of January 1, 2015
Exercised

The programs were valued using a binomial model or a Monte Carlo simulation.

2008
Tranche I

0

0

0

0

0

€220.83

€214.57

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Expired

0

0

-98,693

-2,000

-6,500

Circulating as of December 31, 2015

0

0

0

101,463

106,969

Exercisable options as of the reporting
date

0

0

0

0

0

Ø Share price when exercised

Pursuant to Section 5 of the Option Terms and Conditions, every year the options are subject to a vesting period from December 15 for up to ten trading days after the Annual General Meeting. Accordingly, no options could be exercised as of the reporting date.
As of the date of allocation, the average fair value per option was €49.44 for “Tranche I
-2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was €53.49 for “Tranche II –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was €61.81 for “Tranche III –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.

appreciation rights of the last 30 days of the previous year. Component 2, however, measures the success by comparing the performance of Kering shares to the average performance of a benchmark portfolio of the luxury and sport sector for the same period. These
monetary units are subject to a vesting period of three years. After that, there is an exercise period of two years (in the period from April to October) which can be freely used by
participants for the purpose of exercising the options. The fundamental exercise condition
after the vesting period is the existence of an active employment relationship with PUMA.
Provisions amounting to €1.9 million were recorded for this program in financial year 2015,
based on commitments to the Managing Directors in employment contracts.

T.52

Virtual Shares (Monetary Units)

Issue date

01.01.2013

01.01.2014

01.01.2015

Term

Years

5

5

5

Vesting period

Years

3

3

3

Base price component 1

EUR/share

224.00

173.86

199.47

Base price component 2

EUR/share

152.00

144.00

167.00

199.47

199.47

199.47

EUR/share

163.57

136.54

103.49

Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was €40.14 for “Tranche IV –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. A total of 86,463 options belong to the previous members of the Board of
Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors as of year-end.

Benchmark component 1 at the end of the
financial year

Participants in year of issue

people

4

3

3

Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was €44.59 for “Tranche V –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no further expenses for the current
financial year. A total of 13,453 options belong to the current Managing Directors of PUMA
AG as of year-end.

Participants at the end of the financial year

people

2

3

3

Number of monetary units component 1

share

1,915

3,799

3,556

Number of monetary units component 2

share

3,031

5,501

7,965

EXPLANATION OF “VIRTUAL SHARES”, KNOWN AS “MONETARY UNITS” In 2013, the company
began granting monetary units annually as part of a management incentive program. Monetary units are based on the performance of the PUMA and Kering shares. Each monetary
unit entitles the holder to a cash payout at the end of its term. This payout is determined
partly by the final determined price of the PUMA share (component 1), which has a 70%
weighting, and partly by the final determined price of the Kering share (component 2), which
has a 30% weighting. Component 1 compares the success with the average virtual stock

Benchmark component 2 at the end of the
financial year

EUR/share

This commitment consisting of share-based remuneration transactions with cash compensation are recorded as personnel provisions and revalued on every balance sheet date at fair
value. Expenses are likewise recorded over the vesting period. Based on the market price on
the balance sheet date, the provision for the two programs amounted to a total of €3.0 million
at the end of the financial year.
EXPLANATION OF THE PROGRAM “GAME CHANGER 2017” In addition, in 2014, a further longterm incentive program called “Game Changer 2017” was launched. Participants in this pro-

PUMA TRAINING | 147

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

gram consist mainly of top executives who report to the Managing Directors, as well as occasional key functions in the PUMA Group. The goal of this program is to promote the loyalty
of this group of employees to the company and to allow them to share in the medium-term
success of the company.
The duration of the program is 3 years and is based on the medium-term objectives of the
PUMA Group in relation to the operating result (EBIT) (70%), working capital (15%) and gross
profit margin (15%). The program calls for a provision to be formed each year upon fulfillment
of the currency-adjusted targets. The credit accrued in this way will then be paid out to participants in March 2017. The payment is subject to the condition that the participant is in an
ongoing employment relationship with a company of the PUMA Group as of December 31,
2016. €0.8 million was set aside for this program in the reporting year.
EXPLANATION OF THE PROGRAM “GAME CHANGER 2018” The “Game Changer 2018” program
was launched in 2015; the program has the same parameters as the program “Game Changer 2017”. €1.0 million was set aside for this program in the reporting year.

Other operating income and expenses are allocated based on functional areas as follows:

T.53
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

1,140.4

997.7

Product management/merchandising

37.5

34.8

Research and development

56.7

46.2

249.8

215.4

1,484.4

1,294.1

23.9

17.3

1,460.5

1,276.8

57.5

50.5

0.0

7.3

Sales and distribution expenses

Administrative and general expenses
Other operating expenses
Other operating income
Total
Of which scheduled depreciation
Of which impairment expenses

20. Other Operating Income and Expenses
According to the respective functions, other operating income and expenses include personnel, advertising, sales and distribution expenses as well as rental and leasing expenditure,
travel costs, legal and consulting expenses, and other general expenses. Typical operating
income that is associated with operating expenses was offset. Rental and lease expenses associated with the Company’s own retail stores include sales-dependent rental components.

Within the sales and distribution expenses, marketing/retail expenses account for a large
proportion of the operating expenses. In addition to advertising and promotional expenses,
they also include expenses associated with the Group’s own retail activities. Other sales and
distribution expenses include warehousing expenses and other variable sales and distribution expenses.
Administrative and general expenses include expenses for the statutory auditor of PUMA
SE of €0.8 million (previous year: €0.8 million). Of this, €0.7 million is allocated to auditing
expenses (previous year: €0.6 million), €0.1 million to tax advisory services (previous year:
€0.1 million) and €0.0 million to other assurance services (previous year: €0.1 million).
Other operating income includes €6.1 million (previous year: €16.3 million) relating to income
from the allocation of development costs and €17.8 million (previous year: €1.0 million) relating to other income.

148 | PUMA TRAINING

21. Financial Result

Overall, other operating expenses include personnel costs, which consist of:

The financial result consists of:
T.54

T.56
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

387.1

341.3

50.2

47.8

Expenses from share-based remuneration with compensation in shares

0.0

0.3

Expenses from share-based remuneration with cash compensation

1.9

0.5

Wages and salaries
Social security contributions

Expenses for retirement pension and other personnel expenses
Total

44.6

35.4

483.8

425.3

In addition, cost of sales includes personnel costs of €20.7 million (previous year: €13.6 million).

Income from associated companies
Financial income
Interest expense

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

1.0

1.3

11.2

4.8

-14.4

-9.8

Interest accrued on purchase price liabilities from acquisitions of
business enterprises

-0.1

-0.1

Valuation of pension plans

-0.7

-0.9

Expenses from currency conversion differences, net

-8.2

-1.5

Financial expenses

-23.4

-12.3

Financial result

-11.2

-6.2

The annual average number of full-time employees was as follows:
Income from associated companies results exclusively from the shareholding in Wilderness
Holdings Ltd. (see also paragraph 11).

T.55

Marketing/retail/sales
Product development/design
Administrative and general units
Total annual average

2015

2014

7,367

7,247

866

864

2,755

2,719

10,988

10,830

As of the end of the year, a total of 11,351 people were employed (previous year: 11,267) on
a full-time basis.

Financial income includes only interest income.
Interest expenses relate to short-term financing liabilities.
The financial result also includes a total of €8.2 million in expenses from currency-conversion
differences (previous year: expenses of €1.5 million), which are attributable to financing activities.

PUMA TRAINING | 149

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

22. Income Taxes

The tax effect resulting from items that are directly credited or debited to equity is shown
directly in the statement of comprehensive income.

T.57

Other effects include withholding taxes of €11.4 million (previous year: €11.9 million).
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Germany

26.5

11.9

Other contries

25.0

46.4

51.5

58.3

-28.2

-21.3

23.3

37.0

Current income taxes

Total current income taxes
Deferred taxes
Total

In general, PUMA SE and its German subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax, plus
a solidarity surcharge, and trade tax. The resulting weighted mixed tax rate applied for the
financial year remains at 27.22%.
Reconciliation of the theoretical tax expense with the effective tax expense:

T.58
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Earnings before income tax

85.0

121.8

Theoretical tax expense
Tax rate of the SE = 27.22 % (previous year: 27.22 %)

23.1

33.1

-12.6

-13.1

Income tax for previous years

4.9

7.9

Losses and temporary differences for which no tax claims were
recognized

9.8

2.2

Changes in tax rate

0.3

0.8

-2.2

6.1

23.3

37.0

27.5%

30.4%

Taxation difference with respect to other countries
Other tax effects:

Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes and non-taxable
income and other effects
Effective tax expense
Effective tax rate
150 | PUMA TRAINING

23. Earnings per Share
The earnings per share are determined in accordance with IAS 33 by dividing the consolidated annual surplus (consolidated net earnings) attributable to the shareholder of the
parent company by the average number of circulating shares. Potential shares from the
management incentive program may lead to a dilution of this indicator (see paragraph 19).
The calculation is shown in the table below:

T.59
2015

2014

€ million

37.1

64.1

Average number of circulating shares

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Diluted number of shares

share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Earnings per share

€

2.48

4.29

Earnings per share, diluted

€

2.48

4.29

Net earnings

24. Management of the Currency Risk
In the 2015 financial year, PUMA designated “forward purchase USD” currency derivatives
as cash flow hedges in order to hedge the amount payable of purchases denominated in
USD, which is converted to EUR.
The nominal amounts of open rate-hedging transactions, which relate mainly to cash flow
hedges, refer to currency forward contracts totaling €1,491.2 million (previous year: €862.4
million). Cash flows for these underlying transactions are expected in 2016. Please see also
the details in paragraph 13.

The market values of open rate-hedging transactions on the balance sheet date consist of:

T.60

Currency forward contracts, assets (see paragraph 6)
Currency forward contracts, liabilities (see paragraphs 13 and 14)
Net

If, as of December 31, 2015, the USD had appreciated (devalued) against all other currencies by 10%, the hedge reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging transactions
would have been €105.5 million higher (lower) (December 31, 2014: €59.0 million higher
(lower)).

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

51.0

58.0

-18.7

-8.3

25. Segment Reporting

32.3

49.7

Segment reporting is based on geographical regions in accordance with our internal reporting structure. Sales revenues and operating results (EBIT) are shown according to
the head office of the respective Group company of the corresponding region. Intra-group
sales for the respective region are eliminated. Allocation of the remaining segment information is also determined on the basis of the respective group company’s head office.
The sum totals equal the amounts on the income statement or on the balance sheet,
respectively.

The changes in effective cash flow hedges are shown in the schedule of changes in shareholders’ equity and the statement of comprehensive income.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects
of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables on earnings and equity. The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes caused by the risk variables to
the balance of the financial instruments held as of the balance sheet date. The underlying
assumption is that the balance as of the balance sheet date is representative for the entire
year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and is monetary in nature. Differences
resulting from the conversion of the individual financial statements to the Group currency
are not taken into account. All non-functional currencies in which PUMA employs financial
instruments are generally considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
interest-bearing debt, liabilities from finance leases, non-interest-bearing liabilities) are either denominated directly in the functional currency or transformed into the functional currency through the use of currency forward contracts.
Currency forward contracts used to hedge against payment fluctuations caused by exchange rates are part of an effective cash-flow hedging relationship pursuant to IAS 39.
Changes in the exchange rate of the currencies underlying these contracts have an effect
on the hedge reserve in equity and the fair value of these hedging contracts.

Currency risks are discussed in greater detail in the Group Management Report under the
Risk Management section.

The regions are subdivided into EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Americas (North
and Latin America) and Asia/Pacific.
The segments’ internal sales are generated on the basis of market prices. They are not
considered in the representation, as they are not relevant for controlling.
Investments and depreciation/amortization relate to additions and depreciation/amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets during the current financial
year. In addition, total impairment expenses of € 0.0 million (previous year: € 7.3 million)
were taken into account in the segments EMEA (€ 0.0 million, previous year: €1.5 million),
Americas (€ 0.0 million, previous year: € 1.4 million), Asia/Pacific (€0.0 million, previous
year: €0.2 million) and central units/consolidation (€ 0.0 million, previous year: € 4.2 million).
Since PUMA is active in only one business area, namely that of the sporting goods industry,
sales revenues and gross profit are allocated based on products, i.e., according to the footwear, apparel and accessories product segments in accordance with the internal reporting
structure. According to this reporting structure, except for the allocation of sales revenue
and of gross profit, there is no other allocation of the operating result or of the asset and
liability items.
PUMA TRAINING | 151

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

Operating Segments 1-12/2015
T.61

Regions
External Sales

EBIT

Investments

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

EMEA

1,165.8

1,109.8

-16.6

-5.6

30.8

26.9

Americas

1,191.4

968.1

30.4

41.6

25.4

27.2

Asia/Pacific

652.6

559.3

31.8

12.8

12.5

11.4

Central units/consolidation

377.6

334.8

50.7

79.2

10.5

9.3

3,387.4

2,972.0

96.3

128.0

79.2

74.8

Total

T.62

Regions
Depreciation

Inventories

Trade Receivables

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

EMEA

12.1

12.0

280.0

227.2

159.7

160.0

Americas

15.8

13.4

201.8

191.7

160.9

160.4

Asia/Pacific

10.7

9.1

97.7

68.5

91.5

69.8

Central units/consolidation

18.9

16.0

77.5

84.1

71.0

59.0

Total

57.5

50.5

657.0

571.5

483.1

449.2

152 | PUMA TRAINING

T.63

Product
External Sales

Gross Profit Margin

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million

1-12 / 2014
€ million

Footwear

1,506.1

1,282.7

41.2%

42.6%

Apparel

1,244.8

1,103.1

49.3%

49.5%

636.4

586.3

48.0%

50.0%

3,387.4

2,972.0

45.5%

46.6%

1 – 12 / 2015
€ million.

1-12 / 2014
€ million

EBIT

96.3

128.0

Financial Result

-11.2

-6.2

EBT

85.0

121.8

Accessories
Total

T.64

Bridge to EBT

26. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement

27. Contingencies and Contingent Liabilities

The cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and is structured based on
cash flows from operating, investment and financing activities. The indirect method is used
to determine the net cash used in/ from operating activities. The gross cash flow, derived
from earnings before income tax and adjusted for non-cash income and expense items, is
determined within the cash flow from ongoing operating activities. Net cash used in/ from
operating activities, reduced by investments in property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets, is referred to as free cash flow.

CONTINGENCIES As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingencies.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingent liabilities.

The financial resource fund reported in the cash flow statement includes all payment methods and equivalent payment methods shown under “Cash and cash equivalents”, i.e., cash
in hand, checks and temporary bank balances.

28. Other Financial Obligations
OBLIGATIONS FROM OPERATING LEASES The Group rents and leases offices, warehouses,
facilities, and fleets of vehicles, as well as selling space for the Company’s own retail
stores. Rental agreements for the retail business are concluded for terms of between
five and fifteen years. The remaining rental and lease agreements have residual terms of
between one and five years. Some agreements include options to renew and price adjustment clauses.

PUMA TRAINING | 153

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

Total expenses resulting from these agreements amounted in 2015 to €143.3 million (previous year: €123.5 million). Some of the expenses are dependent on sales.
As of the balance sheet date, the obligations from future minimum rental payments for operating lease agreements are as follows:

In addition, there are other financial obligations totaling €6.7 million, of which €1.3 million
relate to the years from 2017. These include service agreements of €5.7 million and obligations associated with the construction of a building costing €1.0 million.

29. Managing Directors and Administrative Board
Disclosures pursuant to Section 314 (1)(6) of the HGB (German Commercial Code)

T.65
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2016 (2015)

119.6

103.4

2017 – 2020 (2016 – 2019)

253.4

215.5

from 2021 (from 2020)

124.9

63.3

Under rental and lease agreements:

FURTHER OTHER FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS Furthermore, the Company has other financial obligations associated with license, promotional and advertising agreements, which give rise
to the following financial obligations as of the balance sheet date:

T.66
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2016 (2015)

157.4

135.6

2017 – 2020 (2016 – 2019)

366.3

388.1

68.4

93.9

Under license, promotional and advertising agreements:

from 2021 (from 2020)

In addition, there are industry-standard obligations concerning the provision of sports equipment under sponsorship agreements.
As customary in the industry, the promotional and advertising agreements provide for additional payments upon the reaching of pre-defined goals (e.g., medals, championships).
Although these are contractually agreed upon, they naturally cannot be exactly foreseen in
terms of their timing and amount.
154 | PUMA TRAINING

In accordance with the Act on Disclosure of Management Board Compensation of August
3, 2005, the disclosure of the individual earnings of the members of the Board of Management and Managing Directors may be dispensed with for a period of 5 years pursuant to
Section 286(5); Section 285(9)(a) sentences 5–8; Section 314(2)(2) and Section 314(1)(6)
(a) sentences 5–8 of the HGB, if the Annual General Meeting passes a resolution in this
regard by a 75% majority.
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of May 7, 2013, the Company was
authorized to refrain from disclosures pursuant to Section 285(9)(a) sentences 5–8 and
Section 314(1)(6)(a) sentences 5–8 of the HGB with respect to the financial year beginning
on January 1, 2013 and all subsequent financial years ending December 31, 2017 at the
latest.
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board are of the opinion that the shareholders’ justified interest in information is sufficiently accounted for by the disclosure of the total
compensation of the Managing Directors. The Administrative Board will ensure the appropriateness of the individual compensation in accordance with its statutory duties.
THE MANAGING DIRECTORS The compensation of the Managing Directors, which is determined by the Administrative Board, consists of non-performance-based and performancebased components. The non-performance-based components consist of a fixed salary and
non-cash compensation, whereas the performance-based components consist of bonuses
and components with a long-term incentive effect. Along with job assignments and performance of each individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the total remuneration are the economic situation, long-term strategic planning and related targets, the longterm durability of targeted results and the Company’s long-term prospects.
A fixed salary is paid out monthly as non-performance-based basic compensation. In addition, the Managing Directors receive non-cash compensation, such as company cars,
pension contributions and insurance premiums. In principle, these benefits are granted to

all Managing Directors in an equal manner and are included in the non-performance-based
compensation.

ingly recognized as liabilities under pension provisions, unless they are offset against asset
values of an equal amount. Pensions paid totaled €0.2 million (previous year: €0.2 million).

The bonus component of performance-related compensation is mainly based on the PUMA
Group’s operating income (EBIT) and free cash flow and is staggered according to the degree to which targets are met. In addition, qualitative individual goals are set. The parties
also agree on an upper limit.

In 2015, a long-term incentive program, “Game Changer 2018”, was introduced for global
senior management and strategically important employees that will allow this group of employees to participate in PUMA SE’s earnings over the medium term. €1.0 million was set
aside for this program. An additional €0.8 million (previous year: €0.9 million) was set aside
for the predecessor program “Game Changer 2017” (Tranche 2). Further information on the
program can be found in paragraph 19.

The previous performance-based compensation components with long-term incentives (appreciation rights) that were part of a stock option plan were not granted after the 2012 financial year. The existing options can be exercised until May 2017 if the exercise criteria are
met. Details on the parameters for these programs can be found in paragraph 19.
Pro-rata provisions totaling €1.9 million (previous year: €0.7 million) for the compensation
program with long-term incentives for the financial year 2015 (from the years 2013, 2014
and 2015) for the Managing Directors were set up based on the commitments made. Under
the performance-based program, 70% of the compensation will be based on the mediumterm performance of PUMA SE’s share and 30% will be based on the medium-term performance of Kering SA’s share in relation to benchmark companies. Further information on the
program can be found in paragraph 19.
The fixed compensation for the three Managing Directors amounted to €1.9 million in the
financial year (previous year: for the five Managing Directors €2.5 million) and variable bonuses came to €1.5 million (previous year: €2.4 million). Non-cash compensation totaled
€0.1 million (previous year: €0.2 million).
The Managing Directors receive pension benefits, for which the Company took out a pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital that is already financed
through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed to be vested. During
the financial year, €0.4 million was allocated for Managing Directors (previous year: €0.5
million). The present value of the pension benefits granted to Managing Directors in the
amount of €1.7 million as of December 31, 2015 (previous year: €1.3 million) was offset
against the pledged asset value of the pension liability insurance policy, which was of an
equal amount.
Pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management, their widows and
Managing Directors amounted to €13.3 million (previous year: €12.5 million) and are accord-

ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative
Board has at least three members; it currently consists of nine members. The compensation
of the Administrative Board is comprised of a fixed and a performance-based component.
The total fixed compensation amounted to €0.3 million (previous year: €0.3 million).
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative Board
receives fixed annual compensation in the amount of €25,000. Fixed remuneration is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of €25,000 for the Chairman of the Administrative Board, €12,500 for the Vice Chairman of the Administrative Board, €10,000 for the
Chairman of a committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee) and €5,000 for
each member of a committee (with the exception of the Nominating Committee).
In addition, each Administrative Board member receives performance-based compensation
equal to €20.00 for each €0.01 by which the earnings per share figure shown in the annual
financial statements exceeds a minimum amount of €16.00 per share. The performancebased compensation amounts to a maximum of €10,000 per year. The Chairman of the
Administrative Board receives twice this amount (maximum €20,000) and the Vice Chairman receives one and a half times this amount (maximum €15,000) in compensation. Since
earnings per share are below the minimum amount in the financial year, no performancebased compensation will be paid.

30. Related Party Relationships
In accordance with IAS 24, relationships with related parties that control or are controlled
by the PUMA Group must be reported unless such related parties are already included as
consolidated companies in the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE. Control is
defined as the ability to determine an entity’s financial and business policies and benefit
from its activities.
PUMA TRAINING | 155

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

SAPARDIS SE, Paris, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kering S.A., presently holds over 75% of
the subscribed capital of PUMA SE. Kering S.A. is controlled by Artémis S.A., Paris, which
in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris. Consequently, all
companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by Artémis S.A. and are not included in
the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE are accounted for as related companies.
In addition, the disclosure obligation pursuant to IAS 24 also extends to transactions with
associated companies as well as transactions with other related parties. These include noncontrolling shareholders in particular.
Transactions with related parties largely concern the sale of goods and services. These
sales were concluded under normal market conditions that are also customary with third
parties.

Receivables from related parties are, with one exception, not subject to value adjustments.
Only with respect to the receivables from a non-controlling shareholder and its group
of companies were gross receivables of €52.2 million fully adjusted in value for a subsidiary of PUMA SE in Greece as of December 31, 2015 (previous year: €52.2 million).
As in the previous year, no expenses were recognized in this respect in the 2015 financial
year.
Liabilities to companies consolidated in the Kering Group include €74.7 million (previous
year: €0.0 million) in current financial liabilities which were taken out as part of the financing
activities. These liabilities are recognized under Other current financial liabilities.
The Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative Board of the PUMA Group
are related parties within the meaning of IAS 24. The services and compensation of this
group of individuals are shown in paragraph 29.

The following overview illustrates the scope of the business relationships:

T.67

Deliveries and services
rendered
2015
€ million

Deliveries and services
received

2014
€ million

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated companies

0.0

0.0

0.1

0.1

Kering-Group consolidated companies

1.8

2.8

4.8

2.3

Other related parties

25.2

7.1

18.2

14.0

Total

27.0

9.9

23.1

16.4

T.68

Net receivables from

Payables to

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated companies

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

Kering-Group consolidated companies

2.2

1.1

75.3

0.7

Other related parties

1.9

17.9

1.8

0.2

Total

4.1

19.0

77.1

0.9

156 | PUMA TRAINING

Within consulting, service and employment contracts, members of the Administrative Board
received compensation from PUMA of €0.3 million (previous year: €0.3 million).

31. Corporate Governance
In November 2015, the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board submitted the
required compliance declaration with respect to the recommendations issued by the Government Commission German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of the
AktG (Aktiengesetz, German Stock Corporation Act) and published it on the Company’s
website (www.puma.com). Please also refer to the Corporate Governance Report in the
Group Management Report of PUMA SE.

32. Events after the Balance Sheet Date
There were no events after the balance sheet date that had any material impact on the net
assets, financial position and results of operations.

33. Declaration by the Legal Representatives
We state to the best of our knowledge that the consolidated financial statements give a true
and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in
accordance with the applicable accounting principles, and that the Group Management Report provides a true and fair view of the course of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
opportunities associated with the expected performance of the Group.
DATE OF RELEASE The Managing Directors of PUMA SE released the consolidated financial
statements on February 5, 2016 for distribution to the Administrative Board. The task of the
Administrative Board is to review the consolidated financial statements and state whether
it approves them.
Herzogenaurach, February 5, 2016
THE MANAGING DIRECTORS

Gulden

Lämmermann

Sørensen
PUMA TRAINING | 157

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

MANAGING DIRECTORS

Bjørn Gulden

Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Tchibo GmbH, Hamburg
• Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund
• Dansk Supermarked A/S, Højbjerg/Dänemark
• Pandora A/S, Kopenhagen/Dänemark

Michael Lämmermann

Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Lars Radoor Sørensen

Chief Operating Officer (COO)
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Scandinavian Brake Systems A/S, Svendborg/Dänemark

158 | PUMA TRAINING

ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

François-Henri Pinault
(Deputy Chairman)
Paris , France
CEO and Chairman of the Administrative Board of Kering S.A., Paris / France

Jean-François Palus
(Chairman)
London, United Kingdom
Group Managing Director and member of the Administrative Board of Kering S.A.,
Paris/France, responsible for Strategy, Operations and Organization
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Kering Americas, Inc., New York/USA
• Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA
• Luxury Goods International (L.G.I.) S.A., Cadempino/Switzerland
• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd., Tokyo/Japan
• Pomellato SpA, Penne/Italy
• Volcom Luxembourg Holding S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Sowind Group S.A., La Chaux-de-Fonds/Switzerland
• Kering Americas, Delaware/USA
• Guccio Gucci SpA, Florence/Italy
• Gucci America Inc, Delaware/USA
• Christopher Kane Ltd, London/United Kingdom
• Ulysse Nardin S.A., Le Locle/Switzerland
• Kering Eyewear SpA, Padua/Italy

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Artémis S.A., Paris/France
• Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris/France
• Société Civile du Vignoble de Château Latour S.C., Pauillac/France
• Christie’s International Ltd., London/United Kingdom
• Bouygues S.A., Paris/France
• Soft Computing S.A., Paris/France
• Boucheron Holding S.A.S., Paris/France
• Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S, Paris/France
• Kering Holland N.V. (previously named Gucci Group N.V), Amsterdam/Netherlands
• Sapardis SE, Paris/France
• Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA
• Stella McCartney Ltd., Haywards Heath/West Sussex/United Kingdom
• Kering International Ltd., London/United Kingdom
• Kering Netherlands B.V, Amsterdam/The Netherlands
• Ulysse Nardin S.A., Le Locle/Switzerland
• Kering Eyewear SpA, Padua/Italy

Thore Ohlsson
Falsterbo, Sweden
President of Elimexo AB, Falsterbo / Sweden
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Nobia AB, Stockholm/Sweden
• Bastec AB, Malmo/Sweden
• Elite Hotels AB, Stockholm/Sweden
• Tomas Frick AB, Vellinge/Sweden
• Tjugonde AB, Malmo/Sweden
PUMA TRAINING | 159

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

Todd Hymel

Belén Essioux-Trujillo

Santa Ana, USA
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA

Paris, France
Senior Vice-President Human Resources, Kering S.A., Paris/France
Member since 6 May 2015

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Electric Visual Evolution LLC, Costa Mesa/USA

Jean-Marc Duplaix
Paris, France
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Kering S.A., Paris / France
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Sapardis SE, Paris/France,
• Redcats S.A., Paris/France
• E_lite SpA, Milan/Italy
• Kering Italia SpA, Florence/Italy
• Pomellato SpA, Milan/Italy
• Kering Japan Ltd., Tokyo/Japan
• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd., Tokyo/Japan
• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Qeelin Holding Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• E-Kering Lux S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Luxury Fashion Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Noga Luxe S.L., Barcelona/Spain
• Kering Eyewear SpA., Padua/Italy
• GPo Holding SAS, Paris/France
• Gucci Immobiliare Leccio Srl, Florence/Italy
• Design Management Srl, Florence/Italy
• Design Management 2 Srl, Florence/Italy
• Kering Studio SAS, Paris/France
• Balenciaga Asia Pacific Ltd., Hong Kong
160 | PUMA TRAINING

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Sapardis SE, Paris/France
• Castera SARL, Luxembourg/Luxembourg
• Luxury Goods Services SA, Cadempino/Switzerland

Bernd Illig
(Employees’ Representative)
Bechhofen, Germany
Administrator IT Systems of PUMA SE

Martin Köppel
(Employees’ Representative)
Weisendorf, Germany
Chairman of the Works Counsel of PUMA SE

Guy Buzzard
(Employees’ Representative)
West Kirby, United Kingdom
Field Account Manager of PUMA United Kingdom Ltd.

ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD
COMMITTEES

Executive Committee

Sustainability Committee

Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Jean-Marc Duplaix
Martin Köppel

Jean-François Palus (Chairman)
François-Henri Pinault
Martin Köppel

Personnel Committee

Nominating Committee

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Jean-François Palus
Bernd Illig

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Jean-François Palus
Todd Hymel

Audit Committee
Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Jean-Marc Duplaix
Guy Buzzard
PUMA TRAINING | 161

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

STATUTORY AUDITOR’S
OPINION
We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, which consist of the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash
flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the Group management report for the financial
year from January 1 through December 31, 2015. The Company’s Managing Directors are
responsible for preparing the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as
applicable in the EU, as well as in accordance with the supplementary regulations under
commercial law pursuant to Section 315a(1) HGB. It is our duty to render an opinion on the
basis of the audit we conducted of the consolidated financial statements and the Group
management report.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements pursuant to Section 317
HGB in compliance with the German principles of proper auditing established by the Institute of Public Auditors. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such
that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position
and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are identified
with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the Group’s economic
and legal environment as well as expectations of possible misstatements are taken into
account when determining audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related
internal control system as well as evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements and the Group management report are examined primarily on a random basis within the framework of the audit. The audit comprises the evaluation of the
annual financial statements, the annual financial statements of the companies included in
consolidation, the determination of those companies to be included in consolidation, the
162 | PUMA TRAINING

accounting and consolidation principles applied and material evaluations by the Managing
Directors, as well as the acknowledgement of the entire presentation of the consolidated
financial statements and the Group management report. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
Based on the information obtained during our audit, in our opinion the consolidated financial
statements of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, have been properly prepared in accordance
with the IFRS, as applicable in the EU, as well as in accordance with the supplementary
regulations under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a(1) HGB and give a true and fair
view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group. The Group
management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole
provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and accurately presents the opportunities
and risks of future development.

Munich, February 5, 2016

Deloitte & Touche GmbH
Audit company

(Stadter)

(Besli)

Auditor

Auditor

REPORT BY THE
ADMINISTRATIVE
BOARD
“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“An ambitious fitness
training is similar to an
ambitious job. I want to
further develop the power,
engagement and focus to
be able to deal with new
challenges ahead.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Peggy Petrick,
Senior Manager Logistics Customs

5 | REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

REPORT
BY THE
ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD
Dear Shareholders,
In financial year 2015, the Administrative Board has exercised all its duties under the law,
statutes and company rules. It has managed the Company, determined the basic business
strategies and monitored their implementation by the Managing Directors.
In this regard, the Administrative Board has in its four regular meetings discussed and
resolved on the Company’s business policies, all relevant aspects of corporate development and corporation planning, the Company’s economic situation, including its net assets,
financial position and results of operations, and all key decisions for the Group. All members
participated in drawing up the resolutions. The Managing Directors have informed the Administrative Board regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely manner in written and verbal
form about the implementation of all decisions and about all major business transactions.
The Administrative Board discussed in detail all of the Company’s key business transactions, based on the reports by the Managing Directors and the committees, and presented
its own ideas. The Managing Directors has provided the Administrative Board with information on any deviations from business performance based on the specifications that have
been given to the Managing Directors by the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board
verified all of these explanations using the supporting documents submitted. The Administrative Board was involved in all key decisions at an early stage. In addition, the Chairman
164 | PUMA TRAINING

of the Administrative Board and other members of the Administrative Board maintained, and
continue to maintain, regular verbal or written contact with the Managing Directors and keep
themselves informed of all major developments. Overall, these discussions did not give rise
to any doubts that the Managing Directors were managing the Group in anything other than
a lawful and proper manner.
MAIN ADVISORY FOCUS In the financial year 2015, the focus was primarily on the following
topics: Audit and approval of the 2014 financial statements, dividend policy, setting the
agenda for the Annual General Meeting of May 6, 2015, ongoing business development, the
Group’s financial position, business planning for 2016 and medium-term planning, including investments, compliance and internal control system, material litigation in the Group,
sustainability, implementation of the new law for equal participation of women and men in
management positions, corporate governance, including amendment of the Rules of the
Procedure for the Administrative Board with respect to the maximum term of office of the
members of the Administrative Board and amendment of the Rules of Procedure for the
Managing Directors with respect to the age regulation.
To address these topics, the Administrative Board reviewed the Company’s financial reports
and records.

CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The members of the Administrative Board are required to disclose
any conflicts of interest immediately. In the past year, no such disclosures were made.
COMMITTEES The Administrative Board has established five committees to perform its duties and receives regular reports on their work. The members of the committees are listed
in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Annual Report.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee organizes the Administrative Board
meetings and makes decisions when instructed by the Administrative Board to do so on its
behalf. This committee did not meet in 2015.
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE The Personnel Committee is responsible for entering into and making changes to Managing Directors’ employment contracts and for establishing policies for
Human Resources and personnel development. It met once in 2015. Discussions focused
on recommendations for setting bonus payments for the Managing Directors. The Administrative Board was given a respective recommendation for a resolution.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee held four regular meetings in financial year 2015. In
particular, the Audit Committee is responsible for accounting issues and monitoring the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control system, risk management and the
risk management system, internal audits, compliance and the statutory audit of the financial
statements, with particular regard to the required independence of the statutory auditors,
issuing the audit mandate to the statutory auditors, defining the audit areas of focus, any
additional services to be performed by the auditors and the fee agreement.
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Committee is responsible for promoting corporate sustainability and an awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in
every decision made and every action taken. One meeting was held in 2015. The discussions focused on new funding programs with the IFC (World Bank), supporting manufacturers’ sustainability achievements, cooperation with the international organization SHIFT that
analysis the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights
at PUMA and the integration of sustainability within the procurement team.
NOMINATING COMMITTEE The Nominating Committee proposes suitable shareholder candidates to the Administrative Board for its voting recommendations to the Annual General
Meeting. It held one meeting in the last financial year. The discussions focused on the elections to the Administrative Board after Mr. Michel Friocourt resigned from his position as

member of the Administrative Board effective October 31, 2014. The Nominating Committee
recommended that the Administrative Board proposes the election of Ms. Belén EssiouxTrujillo (Senior Vice-President Human Resources, Kering S.A., Paris, France) to the Administrative Board at the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015.

Corporate Governance
As in previous years, the Administrative Board addressed current developments in the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) in the financial year 2015. The GCGC contains
essential statutory regulations and recommendations for the management and supervision of listed companies and standards for responsible corporate governance. The corporate governance standards have long been a part of the corporate routine. None of this is
changed in the single-tier corporate governance system now in place at PUMA.
Pursuant to Paragraph 3.10 of the GCGC, the Administrative Board reports on corporate
governance in the Corporate Governance Report. With very few exceptions, the Company
satisfies the requirements of the GCGC and explains these system-related exceptions, as
well as deviations from the GCGC resulting from PUMA’s single-tier system, in the Statement of Compliance. The Statement of Compliance of November 9, 2015 is available to our
shareholders at any time on the Company’s website under http://about.puma.com/de/
investor-relations/corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/.

Annual financial statements adopted
The annual financial statements for PUMA SE prepared by the Managing Directors in accordance with German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch/HGB) and the management
report for the financial year 2015 as well as the consolidated financial statements and the
consolidated management report for the financial year 2015 prepared in accordance with
Section 315a HGB on the basis of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
have been audited by the statutory auditors, Deloitte & Touche GmbH, Munich, who were
appointed at the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015 and commissioned by the Administrative Board to audit the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial
statements and have been given an unqualified auditor’s opinion.
In their report, the statutory auditors conclude that PUMA’s institutionalized risk management system, in accordance with Section 91(2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz/AktG), is capable of detecting at an early stage and countering any developments
that might jeopardize the continuity of the Company as a going concern. The Administrative
Board has been updated by the Managing Directors regularly on all relevant risks in this
PUMA TRAINING | 165

5 | REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

regard, in particular their assessments of market and procurement risks, financial risks (including currency risks) and organizational risks.
The accounting records, the audit reports from the statutory auditors and the Managing
Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit were made available to all
members of the Administrative Board in a timely manner. At the meeting of the Audit Committee on February 16, 2016 and at the subsequent Administrative Board meeting held on
the same day, the statutory auditors reported on the key results of their audit and discussed
them in detail with the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative Board.
No discrepancies were detected. Further, the Managing Directors explained to the Administrative Board the disclosures made in the management report, pursuant to Sections 289(4)
and (5) and Section 315(4) of German Commercial Code (HGB).
The Administrative Board reviewed in detail the annual financial statements, the management report, the Managing Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit
and the consolidated financial statements as well as the Group management report and
raised no objections. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the
Administrative Board agreed with the results of the audit of both statements and approved
the annual financial statements of PUMA SE and the consolidated financial statements for
the 2015 financial year. The 2015 annual financial statements have thus been adopted.

“We have duly examined and assessed the report and hereby certify that:
1. the information contained in the report is correct,
2. the payments made by the corporation in the legal transactions listed in the
report were not unduly high.”
After a thorough review, the Administrative Board agreed with the Dependent Company
Report prepared by the Managing Directors and approved the auditors’ findings. No objections were raised.

Personnel Changes in the Administrative Board
There was one change in personnel on the part of the shareholder representatives. The
Administrative Board elected Ms. Belén Essioux-Trujillo (Senior Vice-President Human Resources, Kering S.A., Paris, France) as shareholder representative at the Annual General
Meeting on May 6, 2015. Her term of office ends with the close of the Annual General Meeting that adopts the resolutions approving the actions of the Board for the financial year 2016.

Thanks
We would like to express our gratitude and recognition to the Managing Directors, the management teams at the Group companies, the Works Council and all our employees for their
hard work and their outstanding cooperation.

The Administrative Board likewise agrees with the Managing Directors’ proposal to distribute a dividend of € 0.50 per dividend entitled share to the shareholders for financial year
2015. The dividend will be funded from cash and cash equivalents, which will not jeopardize
the Company’s liquidity. A total amount of € 7.5 million will be paid out in dividends from
PUMA SE’s net income. The remaining net income of € 126.8 million will be carried forward.

Herzogenaurach, February 16, 2016

Report on Relationships with Affiliated Companies

On behalf of the Administrative Board

Since April 10, 2007, PUMA SE has been a dependent company of Sapardis S.E., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Kering S.A., which in turn is a subsidiary of Artémis S.A. (due to the
voting right majority), pursuant to Section 17 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
The report by the Managing Directors on relations with affiliated companies (Dependent
Company Report) specified in Section 312 AktG has been made available to the Administrative Board. The report has been reviewed by the statutory auditors, who issued the following
auditor’s opinion:

Jean-François Palus
Chairman

166 | PUMA TRAINING

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX
“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to
constantly improve
myself, be it in sport, at
work or regarding my
own personality. Always
stay in motion.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Anna Kopp,
Treasury Manager

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1

Fully

G4-2

Fully

Foreword
Sustainability Strategy
New Targets “10FOR20”
Sustainability Strategy
Stakeholder Dialogue
New Targets “10FOR20”

5-7
41-42
52
41-42
44
52

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-11

Fully

Working conditions and flexible working modules

G4-12

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
New Target “10FOR20”
Social Sustainability
Health & Safety
Environmental Sustainability

G4-13

Fully

Strategic Priorities
Significant Consolidation, Accounting and
Valuation Principles

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3

Fully

Imprint

G4-4

Fully

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure

G4-5

Fully

Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure

G4-6

Fully

Sourcing

184

G4-7

Fully

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. General
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Group of Consolidated Companies

Fully

Sales

123-124

Partly

Number of employees
Sales
Results of Operations
Dividends

Partly

Diversity
Working conditions and flexible working modules
Number of employees
Numbers only reported by gender and product type.
More detailed information is deemed as not material.

168 | PUMA TRAINING

Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

44
44-46

G4-15

Fully

Stakeholder Dialogue

44

G4-16

Fully

Stakeholder Dialogue

44

IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17

Fully

Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. General

G4-18

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Ranking and Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue

41-42
43
44

73-74

Sustainability Strategy
Rankings & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

41-42
43
44
44-46

73-74

G4-19
84
86-88
89-92
92

Quantity of products sold not disclosed for confidentiality
reasons.
G4-10

79-80
123-131

Fully

86-88

All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement.
G4-9

41-42
52
53-55
56-57
58-61

122-123

All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement.
G4-8

69

G4-14

82-85

All countries with subsidiaries are listed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statement.

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

More detailed information reported in the Consolidated
Financial Statement.

78
78

Page
Number

67-68
69
84

Fully

More details can also be found in the report from Shift
about puma on our website:
http://about.puma.com/damfiles/default/sustainability/
stakeholders/Shift_PUMA_UNGPs-Alignment-Recommendations-2015_ANNUAL-REPORT-1ae10b486c64e6d044725830755a8211.pdf

122-123
162

GRI

GRI

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-20

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Rankings & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

G4-21

Partly

More details can also be found in the report from Shift
about PUMA on our website:
http://about.puma.com/damfiles/default/sustainability/
stakeholders/Shift_PUMA_UNGPs-Alignment-Recommendations-2015_ANNUAL-REPORT-1ae10b486c64e6d044725830755a8211.pdf
Sustainability Strategy
Rankings & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

Page
Number
41-42
43
44
44-46

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Fully

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-26

Fully

Ranking & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

43
44
44-46

73-74

Ranking & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

43
44
44-46

73-74

73-74
G4-27

Fully

41-42
43
44
44-46

73-74

G4-28

Fully

Calendar Year 2015

G4-29

Fully

April 2014

G4-30

Fully

Annually

G4-31

Fully

Imprint

G4-32

Fully

Reporting According to GRI G4
Independent Assurance Report
Statutory Auditor’s Opinion

Fully

G4-33

Fully

No restatements done
Materiality Analysis

73-74

G4-34

G4-25

Fully

43
73-74
162

Ranking & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights
Anti-Corruption Efforts

43
44
44-46
63

73-74

Ranking & Ratings
Stakeholder Dialogue
Human Rights

43
44
44-46

73-74

Independent Assurance Report
Statutory Auditor’s Opinion

73-74
162

GOVERNANCE
Fully

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Fully

184

External assurance sought through independent audit by
Deloitte & Touche GmbH. All executive levels were involved
in this process.

42

No new materiality aspects.

G4-24

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

The ‘in accordance’ option Core was chosen.

73-74
G4-23

Page
Number

REPORT PROFILE

More details can also be found in the report from Shift
about PUMA on our website:
http://about.puma.com/damfiles/default/sustainability/
stakeholders/Shift_PUMA_UNGPs-Alignment-Recommendations-2015_ANNUAL-REPORT-1ae10b486c64e6d044725830755a8211.pdf
G4-22

General
Standard
Disclosures

Governance Structure
Corporate Governance Report

42-43
110-111

ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56

Fully

Relevant Disclosures of Corporate Governance Practices
that are applied beyond the Regulatory Requirements
Social Sustainability
Anti-Corruption Efforts

112
53-55
63

PUMA TRAINING | 169

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4 - EC8

Partly

Sourcing
General Economic Conditions
Results of Operations
Better Work description of activities
Vendor Financing Program
Environmental Sustainability - supplier level
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

Category: Economic
MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA

Fully

Overview 2015
Targets and Strategy
Management System
Economic Report

76-77
79-80
85
86-98

G4-EC1

Fully

Overview 2015
Results of Operations
Sales
Cash Flow

76-77
89-92
86-88
97-98

Detailed information can be found in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the notes the Consolidated Financial Statements.
G4-EC2

G4-EC3

Partly

Fully

101-105
41-42
46
52

Compensation Report
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. General
Provisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations
Pension Provisions

99-100
122-123

MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
G4-DMA

Partly

Sourcing
Risk and Opportunity Categories

G4 - EC9

Partly

Sourcing
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

Risk and Opportunity Management

G4 - EC7

Partly

Cash Flow
Partially reported as PUMA does not disclose on the development extent of investments on communities. Community
needs assessments have not been conducted.

129
140-143

G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Material Performance

G4-EN1

Partly

Paper Consumption;
Material Performance

G4-EN2

Partly

Environmental Targets
Environmental Profit and Loss

82-85
60

41-42
46
48-51
52
61
51
61
48-51
46

Only reported in general terms. Specific percentages are
reported for cotton, polyester, leather and cardboard; total
figures are reported for recycled waste and recycled paper.
Partially reported as PUMA is not directly producing goods,
main input material is paper.

101-105
97-98

MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY
G4-DMA

170 | PUMA TRAINING

82-85
101-105

MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS

MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
Partly

82-85
86
89-92
55
55
58-60
60

Category: Environmental

Risk and Opportunity Management
Our Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
New Targets “10FOR20”

G4-DMA

Page
Number

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets - Energy Consumption and CO2 Emission
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

41-42
46
48-49
52
58-61
60

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI

GRI

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN3

Partly

Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets - Energy Consumption and CO2 Emission

Page
Number

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

46
48-49

MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS
G4-DMA

Fully

46
58-60

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

41-42
46
48-51
52
58-61

G4-EN15

Partly

Environmental Targets - Energy and CO2 Emissions
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

48-49
60

Total renewable and non-renewable energy consumption (in
KWh as well as percentage) is reported irrespective of fuel
types.
G4-EN5

Partly

Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Sustainability - Supplier level
Overall energy intensity is reported but not by sub-categories.

G4-EN6

Partly

Environmental Targets - Energy Consumption and CO2 Emission
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

48-49
60

Partially reported as energy saved and is listed as part of
total energy figures
G4-EN7

Partly

Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

G4-EN16

Fully

Environmental Targets - CO2 Emission from the
Transportation of Goods
Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table

50

G4-EN17

Partly

Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

49
60

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets - Water Consumption
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

G4-EN18

41-42
46
51
52
58-61
60

Not fully material for PUMA’s own organizational operations
but deemed material for supply-chain operations.
G4-EN8

Partly

Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs
Environmental Targets - Water Consumption

49

Reported as total figures irrespective of origin, i.e. biogenic
CO2 emissions not calculated separately
Partly

MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER
Partly

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

No quantitative reporting for CO2 emissions from biogenic
source.

60

Partially reported as PUMA’s production of goods is outsourced. Not reported for each product, but extrapolated
using data from sample supplier.

G4-DMA

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

60
51

Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

49
60

Partially reported as PUMAs production production of
goods is outsourced.
G4-EN19

Fully

Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

49
60

G4-EN21

Partly

Declining VOC Consumption in Footwear Production

57

Partially reported because air emissions are not considered
significant for PUMA’s operations. Quantitative emissions
of air pollution are not reported as PUMA is not directly
involved in production.

Volume of water withdrawn by source, collection method
and reuse of water discharges are not fully reported as
PUMA’s own entities use water only for domestic purposes
and discharge into public waste water collection systems.

PUMA TRAINING | 171

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

Partly

Environmental Profit and Loss
Environmental Sustainability - Supplier level (waste water
disclosure on IPE)

Partly

Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table
Environmental Targets - Waste creation
Environmental Targets - Paper Consumption
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-EN27

Fully

Environmental Targets - Paper Consumption
Health & Safety - Product Safety/Restricted Substances
Declining VOC Consumption in Footwear Production
Environmental Sustainability - Supplier level
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE
Material Performance

G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

G4-EN30

Fully

Environmental Targets - E-KPI Table
Environmental Targets - CO2 Emission from the
Transportation of Goods
Environmental Sustainability - Table on E-KPIs

46
59

G4-DMA
49
51
51
60

MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Fully

172 | PUMA TRAINING

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Targets
New targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

51
56-57
57
58-60
60
61

41-42
48-51
52
58-61
49
50
60

MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

41-42
48-51
52
58-61

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

41-42
48-51
52
58-61

G4-EN32

Fully

Health & Safety
Environmental Sustainability - Supplier level
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

56-57
58-60
60

G4-EN33

Partly

Health & Safety - Product Safety/Restricted Substances
Environmental Sustainability - Supplier level
Supplier Efficiency Program SAVE

56-57
58-60
60

Partially reported in percentage. Detailed information is not
material since PUMA has outsourced production to independent supplier factories.

G4-DMA

Page
Number

MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT

Destination, treatment method and reuse of water discharges are not fully reported as PUMA’s own entities use water
only for domestic purposes and discharge into public waste
water collection systems.
For supply chain not reported on volume but on test methods and water quality of waste water at suppliers.
G4-EN23

General
Standard
Disclosures

41-42
46
48-51
52
58-61

Partially reported as detailed information is not material
since PUMA has outsourced production to independent
supplier factories.
G4-EN22

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Data for sample suppliers reported that participated in environmental projects or were audited.

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Sustainability

41-42
58-61

G4-EN34

Partly

Critical Issues
Only reported for selected complaints.

43-44

Category: Social

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

G4-LA10

Partly

Growing Talent
Training and Development
Talent Management

Page
Number

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

65
65-66
66-67

General training and development program in place, including leadership training. No specific lifelong learning program
supporting continued employability.
G4-LA11

Partly

Talent Management

66-67

Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Reporting on total number of employees taking part in annual appraisal talks and talent management system, but not
as percentage

MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT
G4-DMA

Partly

New Targets “10FOR20”
People@PUMA

G4-LA1

Partly

Working conditions and flexible working modules
Number of employees

52
65-72
69
84

Information is deemed not material. Total employee
turnover and overall range of turnover are collected and
reported.

MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
G4-DMA

Partly

Diversity

67-68

G4-LA12

Partly

Diversity

67-68

Gender diversity reported, but not age range and minorities

MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES

G4-DMA

Fully

New Targets “10FOR20”
Occupational Health and Safety

52
71-72

G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Audit Statistics

G4-LA6

Partly

Occupational Health and Safety

71-72

G4-LA14

Fully

Audit Statistics

G4-LA15

Partly

Audit Statistics
Resolution of Complaints

Partially reported only for suppliers, as occupational
disease rate and minor injuries at our own entities are not
significant (not material).

41-42
54
54
54
54-55

Numbers of complaints reported, but not all complaints
reported in detail.

MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
G4-DMA

Partly

Growing Talent
Training and Development
Talent Management

65
65-66
66-67

MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

G4-LA9

Partly

Training and Development

65-66

G4-LA16

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

Numbers of employees trained and total hours of training is
reported, but not gender specific.

PUMA TRAINING | 173

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Sub-Category: Human Rights

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Aspect: Child Labor

MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT
G4-DMA

Fully

Human Rights
Social Sustainability

44-46
53-55

G4-HR1

Fully

Social Sustainability

53-55

G4-HR2

Partly

Social Targets
Social Sustainability
Better Work Description of Activities

47-48
53-55
55

G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

41-42
53-55

G4-HR5

Partly

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities deemed as
not material. No detailed information reported on which operations or suppliers are considered to have significant risk
for incidents. Only actual cases in the reporting focus.
MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR

Human Rights aspects are covered within general trainings
as well as for related staff (e.g. sourcing) on the job and in
dedicated meetings.
MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

41-42
53-55

G4-HR3

Partly

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities deemed as
not material.

G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

41-42
53-55

G4-HR6

Partly

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities deemed as
not material. No detailed information reported on which operations or suppliers are considered to have significant risk
for incidents. Only actual cases in the reporting focus.
MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

G4-HR7

Partly

Better Work Description of Activities
Building Safety

MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

41-42
53-55

G4-HR4

Partly

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

41-42
53-55
55
56

Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities deemed as
not material.

Covered for selected suppliers in China, for PUMAs own
entities deemed as not material.

MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT
G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

G4-HR9

Fully

Audit Statistics
Covered for suppliers, for PUMAs own entities not material.
Information reported for percentage of suppliers by regions,
not by operations and country.

174 | PUMA TRAINING

41-42
53-55
54

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

G4-HR10

Fully

Audit Statistics

G4-HR11

Partly

Audit Statistics
Resolution of Complaints

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

G4-SO4

Partly

Anti-Corruption Efforts
Corporate Governance
Risk and Opportunity Categories

63
110-111
101-105

41-42
53-55
54

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

Total number of participants / business partners reported,
not by employee category and region.

54
54-55

MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY

Impact assessment of suppliers and areas of impact can
be seen in the audit statistics and resolution of complaints
overview. Detailed information on percentages is not included in the scope of our reporting.

G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy
Social Sustainability

G4-SO9

Fully

Audit Statistics

41-42
53-55
54

According to our policies every new supplier has to go
through our initial assessment.

MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

G4-HR12

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

G4-SO10

Partly

Sub-Category: Society

Audit Statistics
Critical Issues
Resolution of Complaints

54
43-44
54-55

Only total numbers reported. Detailed information on percentages is not included in the scope of our reporting.

MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA

Partly

Sustainability Strategy

41-42

G4-SO1

Partly

Social Sustainability
Environmental Sustainability
Charity Cat

53-55
58-61
70-71

MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY
G4-DMA

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

G4-SO11

Fully

Resolution of Complaints

54-55

For community engagement only qualitative data reported.
MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION
G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Anti-Corruption Efforts
Corporate Governance

41-42
63
110-111

G4-SO3

Partly

Anti-Corruption Efforts
Corporate Governance
Risk and Opportunity Categories

63
110-111
101-105

Only qualitative data disclosed.

PUMA TRAINING | 175

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI
General
Standard
Disclosures

Inclusion

Cross-reference and comments

Page
Number

Sub-Category: Product Responsibility
MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA

Fully

Sustainability Strategy
Environmental Targets
New Targets “10FOR20”
Environmental Sustainability

41-42
48-51
52
58-61

G4-PR1

Partly

Health & Safety - Product Safety/Restricted Substances
Material Performance

56-57
61

All products must be tested, but only number of RSL test
reports that are stored in our database are reported.
G4-PR2

Partly

Health & Safety - Product Safety/Restricted Substances
Failures of RSL tests reported but consequences (fines,
warnings) are not specifically mentioned.

176 | PUMA TRAINING

56-57

External
Assurance
DELOITTE

THE PUMA SHARE
“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“Training enables me to
manage new projects
with enthusiasm and selfconfidence. I want to increase
passion and strength to cope
with new challenges and
achieve ambitious goals.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Petra Sticker,
Teamhead Sourcing Footwear

7 | THE PUMA SHARE

THE PUMA SHARE

The PUMA share had a very positive development in 2015 compared to prior year and
showed considerable gains at the end of the
stock market year. The share started into
2015 at € 172.55 and moved in the coming
twelve months in a range between € 141.85
(June 8, 2015 / -17.8%) and € 212.85 (November 6, 2015 /+23.4%). As of December 30,
2015, the share was trading at € 198.65 and
therefore 15.1% higher than at the closing
rate of prior year. The market capitalization
increased accordingly from € 2.6 billion to
around € 3.0 billion. The average daily volume of shares traded increased as well to
9,416 shares compared to 7,209 shares in
2014.
178 | PUMA TRAINING

T.1

Key Data per Share
2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

End of year price

€

198.65

172.55

235.00

224.85

225.00

Highest price listed

€

212.85

235.00

249.40

274.00

252.85

Lowest price listed

€

141.85

157.10

205.35

210.10

197.30

amount

9,416

7,209

11,086

24,739

39,973

Earnings per share

€

2.48

4.29

0.36

4.69

15.36

Gross cashflow per share

€

9.00

11.52

15.44

21.89

25.47

Free cashflow (before acquisitions) per share

€

-6.58

4.23

3.33

5.58

4.07

Shareholders’ equity per share

€

108.39

108.32

100.22

106.73

107.14

Dividend per share

€

0.50

0.50

0.50

0.50

2.00

Daily trading volume (Ø)

PUMA Share Performance / Trading Volume

F.1

Share Development – rebased

F.2
amount
120,000

€
250

140

SDAX
200

100,000

PUMA Share
Performance

120

PUMA

80,000
100

150
60,000

80

100
40,000

Trading Volume
50

20,000

0
Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

0

60

40
Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

The PUMA share has been registered for the regulated market (formerly official trading)
on German stock exchanges since 1986. It is listed in the Prime Standard Segment and
the Small-Cap Index SDAX of the German Stock Exchange [Deutsche Börse]. Moreover,
membership in the Dow Jones World / STOXX Sustainability indices and the FTSE4Good
index was once again confirmed.
PUMA TRAINING | 179

FURTHER
INFORMATION

“WHAT ARE
YOU TRAINING FOR?”
“I am training to become faster
– in every aspect of my life.
#NoMatterWhat.”
Elina Falke.
Regional Marketing Production Manager Europe

T.1

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison

T.1
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

Deviation

3.387.4

2.972.0

14.0%

- Footwear

1.506.1

1.282.7

- Apparel

1.244.8

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison
2015
€ million

2014
€ million.

Deviation

Gross cashflow

134.5

172.2

-21.9%

17.4%

Free cashflow (before acquisition)

-98.3

63.1

-255.7%

1.103.1

12.9%

Investments (before acquisition)

79.0

72.6

8.8%

636.4

586.3

8.5%

0.5

23.8

-97.8%

1.540.2

1.385.4

11.2%

10.988

10.830

1.5%

EBIT1)

96.3

128.0

-24.8%

308.3

274.4

12.3%

EBT

85.0

121.8

-30.2%

Net earnings

37.1

64.1

-42.1%

Share price (in €)

198.65

172.55

15.1%

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

14.940

14.940

0.0%

2.48

4.29

-42.1%

Sales
Consolidated sales

- Accessories

Cashflow and investments

Result of operations
Gross profit

Employees

Profitability
Gross profit margin

Acquisition investments

Number of employees (annual average)
Sales per employee (k€)
PUMA share

45.5%

46.6%

-1.1%pt

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

EBT margin

2.5%

4.1%

-1.6%pt

Earnings per share (in €)

Net margin

1.1%

2.2%

-1.1%pt

Market capitalization

2.968

2.578

15.1%

Return on capital employed (ROCE)

7.9%

11.5%

-3.6%pt

Average trading volume (amount/day)

9.416

7.209

30.6%

Return on equity (ROE)

2.3%

4.0%

-1.7%pt

1.619.3

1.618.3

0.1%

- Equity ratio

61.8%

63.5%

-1.7%pt

Working capital

532.9

455.7

16.9%

15.7%

15.3%

0.4%pt

Balance sheet information
Shareholders' equity

- in % of Consolidated sales

PUMA TRAINING | 181

8 | FURTHER INFORMATION

T.2

PUMA Group Development (1)
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

2005
€ million

Consolidated sales

3,387.4

2,972.0

2,985.3

3,270.7

3,009.0

2,706.4

2,447.3

2,524.2

2,373.5

2,369.2

1,777.5

- Change in %

14.0%

-0.4%

-8.7%

8.7%

11.2%

10.6%

-3.0%

6.3%

0.2%

33.3%

16.2%

- Footwear

1,506.1

1,282.7

1,372.1

1,595.2

1,539.5

1,424.8

1,321.7

1,434.3

1,387.9

1,420.0

1,175.0

- Apparel

1,244.8

1,103.1

1,063.8

1,151.9

1,035.6

941.3

846.2

899.3

827.3

795.4

473.9

636.4

586.3

549.4

523.6

433.9

340.3

279.4

190.6

158.3

153.8

128.6

1,540.2

1,385.4

1,387.5

1,579.0

1,493.4

1,344.8

1,243.1

1,306.6

1,241.7

1,199.3

929.8

45.5%

46.6%

46.5%

48.3%

49.6%

49.7%

50.8%

51.8%

52.3%

50.6%

52.3%

Royalty and commission income

16.5

19.4

20.8

19.2

17.6

19.1

20.6

25.7

35.6

37.0

55.7

EBIT1)

96.3

128.0

191.4

290.7

333.2

337.8

299.7

350.4

372.0

368.0

397.7

2.8%

4.3%

6.4%

8.9%

11.1%

12.5%

12.2%

13.9%

15.7%

15.5%

22.4%

85.0

121.8

53.7

112.3

320.4

301.5

138.4

326.4

382.6

374.0

404.1

2.5%

4.1%

1.8%

3.4%

10.6%

11.1%

5.7%

12.9%

16.1%

15.8%

22.7%

37.1

64.1

5.3

70.2

230.1

202.2

79.6

232.8

269.0

263.2

285.8

1.1%

2.2%

0.2%

2.1%

7.6%

7.5%

3.3%

9.2%

11.3%

11.1%

16.1%

Marketing/retail

697.6

599.7

544.1

609.3

550.7

501.3

501.2

528.6

448.3

439.5

285.3

Personnel

483.8

425.3

415.7

438.8

393.8

354.1

320.2

306.4

278.0

265.7

199.4

Sales

- Accessories

Result of operations
Gross profit
- Gross profit margin

- EBIT margin
EBT
- EBT margin
Net earnings
- Net margin

Expenses

1) EBIT before special items
* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8. see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31. 2010

182 | PUMA TRAINING

T.2

PUMA Group Development (2)
2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

2005
€ million

Total assets

2.620,3

2.549,9

2.308,5

2.530,3

2.581,8

2.366,6

1.925,0

1.898,7

1.863,0

1.714,8

1.321,0

Shareholders' equity

1.619,3

1.618,3

1.497,3

1.597,4

1.605,2

1.386,4

1.133,3

1.177,2

1.154,8

1.049,0

875,4

- Equity ratio

61,8%

63,5%

64,9%

63,1%

62,2%

58,6%

58,9%

62,0%

62,0%

61,2%

66,3%

Working capital

532,9

455,7

528,4

623,7

534,0

404,5

323,2

436,4

406,5

401,6

255,7

657,0

571,5

521,3

552,5

536,8

439,7

344,4

430,8

373,6

364,0

238,3

-98,9

39,3

29,2

-8,2

16,8

17,1

167,3

85,8

208,8

10,4

134,4

79,5

96,4

76,3

172,9

115,3

163,6

136,3

144,1

112,9

153,9

79,8

Return on equity (ROE)

2,3%

4,0%

0,4%

4,4%

14,3%

14,6%

7,0%

19,8%

23,3%

25,1%

32,6%

Return on capital employed (ROCE)

7,9%

11,5%

5,6%

8,6%

28,7%

31,7%

20,3%

41,0%

54,8%

58,0%

96,7%

Number of employees (year-end)

11.351

11.267

10.982

11.290

10.836

9.697

9.646

10.069

9.204

7.742

5.092

Number of employees (annual average)

10.988

10.830

10.750

10.935

10.043

9.313

9.747

9.503

8.338

6.831

4.425

198,65

172,55

235,00

224,85

225,00

248,00

231,84

140,30

273,00

295,67

246,50

2,48

4,29

0,36

4,69

15,36

13,45

5,28

15,15

16,80

16,39

17,79

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14,940

14,940

14,940

14,967

14,981

15,031

15,082

15,360

16,018

16,054

16,066

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

14,940

14,940

14,940

14,939

14,935

14,981

15,082

15,082

15,903

16,114

15,974

2.968

2.578

3.511

3.359

3.360

3.715

3.497

2.116

4.342

4.764

3.938

Balance sheet

- thereof: inventories

Cashflow
Free cashflow
Investments (incl. acquisitions)

Profitability

Additional information

PUMA share
Share price (in €)
Earnings per share (in €)

Market capitalization

* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8. see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31. 2010

PUMA TRAINING | 183

IMPRINT

PUBLISHER
PUMA SE
PUMA Way 1
91074 Herzogenaurach
Germany
Phone: 0049 (0) 9132 81 – 0
Online: www.about.puma.com

∂

IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS CONCERNING
THIS REPORT, PLEASE CONTACT:

CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
JOHANNES HACKSTETTE
Senior Manager Corporate Communications
johannes.hackstette@puma.com

SUSTAINABILITY
STEFAN SEIDEL
Head of Corporate Sustainability
stefan.seidel@puma.com

HUMAN RESOURCES
DIETMAR KNÖSS
Director Human Resources
dietmar.knoess@puma.com

INVESTOR RELATIONS
JOHAN-PHILIP KUHLO
Senior Manager Global Strategy
investor-relations@puma.com

∂
∂

∂
∂

EDITORIAL DEPARTMENTS
Corporate Communications
Investor Relations
PUMA.Safe
Human Resources
DESIGN AND REALISATION
G64-medienwelten GmbH
Planckstraße 13
Planckstudios-Magistralgebäude
22765 Hamburg
gramlow@g64-medienwelten.de

∂

GAMECHANGERS
MASTER THE RULES. RULE THE PITCH.

GET YOURS AT PUMA.COM/TRICKS #CHOOSETRICKS

