MOMENTUM

2016

—

Annual Report

TI MEL INE

01

JANUARY

PERFORMANCE
ISPO AWARD
PUMA’s innovative
evoTRG Vent Jacket
receives the prestigious
ISPO award: It has
ergonomically-placed
inserts that adapt during
football moves.

02

FEBRUARY

03

MARCH

PUMA BY RIHANNA

IGNITE DISC SLEEVE

The first ever “FENTY
PUMA by Rihanna” collection is presented at the
New York Fashion Week:
Nothing short of unexpected, Rihanna presents
a full collection for both
women and men.

Celebrating the
running classic’s 25th
anniversary, PUMA
drops a reimagined icon
combining the legendary
DISC System with a sleek
contemporary upper
and the brand’s IGNITE
FOAM technology.

04

APRIL

PUMA INTRODUCES
FINANCIAL INCENTIVES
FOR SUPPLIERS
PUMA and the
International Finance
Corporation (IFC)
partner up to offer
innovative financial
incentives for suppliers
to improve their
environmental and
social standards in their
factories.

05

MAY

06

JUNE

GROUNDBREAKING
HQ EXPANSION

GRIEZMANN “PLAYER
OF THE EURO”

PUMA kicks off construction works for the
expansion of its headquarters in Herzogenaurach. After its completion in spring 2018, the
new administrative building will provide space for
up to 550 employees.

Like PUMA, he is fast,
fierce and unstoppable:
French national Antoine
Griezmann is named
“Player of the tournament” and becomes top
goal scorer at the UEFA
Euro 2016.

07

JULY

08

AUGUST

09

SEPTEMBER

10

OCTOBER

11

NOVEMBER

12

DECEMBER

KYLIE JENNER
JOINS PUMA

THREE GOLD MEDALS
FOR BOLT IN RIO

“DO YOU” WOMEN’S
CAMPAIGN

SIGNING OF
“THE WEEKND”

PUMA DOMINATES
FORMULA 1

DRIVER TECHNOLOGY
“CONNECT”

Beloved amongst young
women around the
globe, style icon and
social media star Kylie
Jenner joins PUMA as
ambassador for women’s Sportstyle.

Superstar Usain Bolt
once again delivered
a world-class performance by winning an
Olympic Gold medal
in each of the three
sprinting events in Rio
de Janeiro.

PUMA launches its “DO
YOU” campaign with
international model,
actress, and activist
Cara Delevingne, which
aims to inspire confidence in women around
the world.

Abel Tesfaye a.k.a. The
Weeknd partners with
PUMA as a new Global
Brand Ambassador and
Creative Collaborator,
bringing his unique
creative lens to PUMA
collections.

Nico Rosberg celebrates
the greatest sucess of his
career: being crowned
F1 champion. PUMA
teams MERCEDES AMG
PETRONAS, RED BULL
RACING and Scuderia
FERRARI claim the first
places in the Constructor’s Championship.

COBRA PUMA Golf
introduces its new KING
F7 drivers featuring an
ultralight GPS sensor
that is embedded in the
grip, which allows players to track every shot
with their smartphones.

RÜCKBLICK | 1

2 | RÜCKBLICK

MOMENTUM

Mo|men|tum (latin mōmentum, „duration of a movement“)
Momentum is a fundamental size in physics which describes the mechanical state of movement
of a physical object. The momentum of an object increases with its velocity.

C ONTENT
1 | TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
n Foreword

04
05

2 | COMPANY OVERVIEW
Company
n Operations Strategy
Brand
n Brand Strategy
n DO YOU
Product
n Performance
n Sportstyle
n Licensing
n Accessoires
Distribution
n Distribution Strategy
Sustainability
n PUMA Sustainability
Strategy 10FOR20
n Social Aspects
n Environment
n Governance
n Summary
Our Employees
n People@PUMA
Independent Assurance
Statement

08
08
09
11
12
14
16
17
26
31
33
34
35
38

3 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT
Overview 2016
PUMA Group Essential Information
n Commercial Activities and
Organisational Structure
n Targets and Strategy
n Product Development and Design
n Sourcing
n Employees
n Management System

Economic Report
n General Economic Conditions
n Sales
n Results of Operations
n Dividends
n Regional Development
n Net Assets and Financial Position
n Cashflow

39
48
57
68
69
70
71
83

86
86
89
89
90
92
94
97
99
100
100
100
103
106
107
109
111

n Managing Director‘s Statement
n ment and the Overall Situation of

Comments on the German GAAP
Financial Statements of PUMA SE
Compensation Report
Risk and Opportunity Management
Supplemental Report and Outlook
Information Concerning Takeovers
Corporate Governance Report
including the Statement
on Corporate Governance

5 | REPORT BY THE
ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

191

6 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

198

7 | THE PUMA SHARE

208

8 | FURTHER INFORMATION

211

MOMENTUM
Morgane Zimmer

Human Resources Assistant, PUMA France

n regarding the Business Developn the PUMA Group

4 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135
n Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position
136
n Consolidated Income Statement
137
n Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
138
n Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows
139
n Statement of Changes in Equity
140
n Changes in Fixed Assets
141
n Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
142
n Auditor‘s Opinion
190

113
114
117
119
125
127

“I met Antoine Griezmann at a press conference in our Paris showroom last May,
just before the EURO 2016. Being a great
fan, I particularly enjoyed this unforgettable experience. A game of table football
gave us the time to have a laugh and a chat together – with
lots of photos thrown in as well. The memory will stay with
me forever.”

129
CONTENT | 3

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS

S
FOREWORD
5

FOR E WOR D

Letter from Bjørn Gulden
Dear Shareholders of PUMA,
2016 was an exciting year for us with many
great sporting events to showcase our
brand and with a general improvement in
our business. We had growth in all regions
and in all product segments. Most importantly, we saw an improved sell-through
of our products to the end consumer, both
in our owned and operated retail and with
our key retail partners. This resulted in
increased profitability and a substantially
improved cash flow for our company. We
therefore feel assured that we are on a
good path with the “right” strategy, with better products, more successful and salesdriven marketing and that we have clearly
enhanced the cooperation with our retail
partners.
We still have a lot to improve, but we felt we
got some “Momentum” in 2016 and I can
assure you that we will work very hard to
continue this in 2017. We will continue to
pursue our mission to become the Fastest
Sports Brand in the World.

In 2016, we again focused on our five strategic priorities and made progress in all of
them: improving the brand heat for PUMA,
further improving our product engine with a
strong pipeline of exciting, innovative and
commercial products, optimising the distribution quality through stronger cooperation
with our key retail partners, increasing the
speed in our organisation and business
processes and strengthening the focus on
our women´s business.

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS | 5

IGNITE
For us, 2016 was particularly exciting
because of big events such as the Copa
América, the UEFA Euro 2016, and the
Olympics in Rio – all of which proved to be
perfect stages to showcase PUMA as an
innovative and design-driven sports brand.
In addition, we managed to better capitalise on our partnerships with some of the
world´s best ambassadors. The Fastest
Man on Earth, Usain Bolt, star footballer
Antoine Griezmann, golf icons Rickie Fowler and Lexi Thompson, Arsenal Football
Club, BVB Borussia Dortmund, the New
York City Ballet, Rihanna, The Weeknd,
Cara Delevingne, Kylie Jenner and many
others made a major impact in creating
more brand heat and improving the sales
of PUMA products in 2016.
6 | TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS

The grown demand for both our Performance and Sportstyle products confirms
that we have managed to increase the commercial appeal of our products. The PUMA
Fierce has been a success in terms of shelf
space, media coverage and most importantly sales. Our IGNITE franchise has
put PUMA back in the running and training category again and the FENTY PUMA
by Rihanna products have had a tremendous impact on our success in the fashion/
lifestyle area. Furthermore, our women´s
business saw the launch of a series of successful styles: shoes, apparel and accessories – both in collaboration with Rihanna
as well as in our inline collection. Key footwear styles sold out within weeks or days.
Our task is now to utilise this momentum to

–

USAIN BOLT SHARING HIS BEST MOMENTS OF THE OLYMPICS WITH THE PUMA FAMILY

get more and even better shelf space with
the best retailers around the world.
In terms of improving the quality of our distribution, we continued to see a strengthened cooperation with our key retail partners. Because of the enhanced brand heat
and the improved sell-through of our products, we experienced increased interest
from retailers from all over the world. This
resulted in more and better shelf space
with existing retailers, and also new shelf
space with retailers that have not ranged
PUMA lately. PUMA’s owned and operated
retail also developed positively in 2016 with
a healthy like-for-like sales growth, a higher number of owned and operated stores
and significant growth in the eCommerce
business.

–

We have continued to make progress in key
areas to improve our business processes
and to increase the speed in our organisation. This includes further standardisation
of ERP systems, the implementation of a
standardised global IT-foundation and the
continued optimisation of the global sourcing and trading organisation. We have
developed and implemented new tools to
speed up the product creation process and
to shorten the lead times for our products.
We are very proud of the positive development in our women´s business in 2016.
The product launches with Rihanna and
other female ambassadors have been very
successful throughout the whole year. The
FENTY PUMA by Rihanna collections have
been very well received by the consumers

NICO ROSBERG CELEBRATING WITH HIS TEAM

and mostly sold out within hours. The most
successful FENTY PUMA by Rihanna shoe
model, The Creeper, which was launched
in several colour and material executions
was named the “Shoe of the Year 2016”
by Footwear News in the US. The reactions to the FENTY PUMA by Rihanna runway shows during the New York and Paris
Fashion Weeks have been overwhelmingly
positive and created major buzz in social
media. During 2016, we also launched our
“DO YOU” campaign, which aims to inspire
confidence in women around the world.
Spearheaded by international model,
actress and activist Cara Delevingne, “DO
YOU” features a cross category product
range from PUMA´s Running, Training and
Sportstyle collections.

–

PUMA remains committed to the United
Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Social, economic and environmental
sustainability is a core value for PUMA and
we will continue to pursue our ten ambitious
sustainability targets that we aim to reach
by 2020. In April 2016, PUMA and the
International Finance Corporation (IFC), a
member of the World Bank Group, entered
into a partnership to provide financing to
PUMA’s suppliers in emerging markets.
This innovative programme, which is the
first a European brand signed with IFC,
offers financial incentives for suppliers to
improve environmental, health, safety and
social standards. In its first phase, the programme will be rolled out in Bangladesh,
Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Pakistan

–
FENTY PUMA BY RIHANNA SS17 COLLECTION
PRESENTED ON PARIS FASHION WEEK 2016 –

–

and Vietnam. As part of our community
engagement, we also formed a partnership with “Right To Play”, an organisation
engaged in the support of underprivileged
children through sports.
Like a successful sports team, we count on
every player here at PUMA. The more we
believe in ourselves, the more we trust and
motivate each other, the better will be the
result. I would like to express my sincerest
thanks to each and every team member
here at PUMA. You have all done a great
job in helping us to improve our business in
2016, and your personal commitment, energy and positive attitude are highly appreciated. I would also like to thank you, our
shareholders, for their belief and support. I
can assure you that we will work very hard

to use the current “Momentum” to improve
the value of your investment. We are confident that 2017 will be a year where we will
continue to improve our performance and
a year where we will take another step in
the journey to become the “Fastest Sports
Brand in The World”!
Yours sincerely,

Bjørn Gulden

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS | 7

9

COMPANY

OPERATIONS
STRATEGY

Lars Sørensen, Chief Operating Officer

–

LARS SØRENSEN

–

O PE R AT I O N S ST R ATEGY

Led by Chief Operating Officer Lars
Sørensen, PUMA’s Global Operations
department comprises product development, sourcing, trading and logistics activities as well as the group’s IT and Business
Solutions functions. By means of smooth
interaction of all these functions, PUMA
manages to provide commercial products
at the best price and quality and at the right
time.
Thanks to the continuous optimisation of
PUMA’s systems, processes and strategy
over the past two years, 2016 gave testament to many improvements in terms of
a better and more agile supply chain. For

2016 saw continued investments into better
and faster collections, into our brand, our
organisation, as well as our distribution and our
IT infrastructure. All of these initiatives enable us
to pursue our company mission: to become the
Fastest Sports Brand in the World.

example, we increased speed in responding to market needs as part of our rapid-response buying programme, and we mastered the innovative, yet – from a sourcing
perspective – special designs and creations of Rihanna, without compromising
on our high-quality standards.

Agility Drivers for an Improved
Supply Chain
Through a differentiation of our supply chain
based on the wide range of products manufactured by our suppliers around the world,
we improved our capability to better cater for

and fulfil the specific needs of our business.
Moving closer to our suppliers by locating more employees in product operation
centres (POCs) close to our factories has
allowed us to enable faster decision-making and to benefit from stronger synergies
with our partners. In addition, the integration
of our Sustainability team into our buying
organisation has brought a closer alignment
with our supply chain and helped to establish sustainability as a key element of our
day-to-day business.
Our strong emphasis on local-for-local
production in countries such as India and
Mexico will enable us to better respond to

the needs of key markets. In terms of distribution, implementing a new and highly
automated warehouse solution in the United
States and relocating to a safer and more
modern warehouse in Mexico have started
to show better service-level results for those
key markets.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 9

OPER ATI ONS M ANT R A

BUSINESS PARTNER
EASY TO DO BUSINESS WITH
TALKS SOLUTIONS
BE A FLEXIBLE &
SERVICE ORIENTATED

WHO IS

AND ALWAYS

Faster Business Processes
through Faster Business
Solutions
In 2016, PUMA’s Business Solutions
team focused on three main areas, which
enabled the implementation of faster business processes and IT systems: (1) to further implement PUMA’s end-to-end trading
setup, (2) to further optimise our design,
development and planning processes, and
(3) to further improve PUMA’s IT infrastructure.

10 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA International Trading (PIT):
2016 saw further improvements in our PUMA
International Trading Environment, enhancing capabilities through simplification and
automation to even better fulfil the needs of
our sales subsidiaries and their customers.
Design, Development and Planning:
The toolbox approach initiated in 2015
has enabled us to service fast-moving
market segments very efficiently. In 2016
we took first steps in implementing more
advanced product management tools –
a road that will continue into 2017.

IT Foundation:
2016 saw further rollouts to build an
improved and standardised global IT foundation to allow for faster and better communication and exchange of information. It
was also the year that yielded full benefits
of the new Microsoft environment, now fully enabling our global workforce to engage
from anywhere in the world at any given
time.

Looking Ahead…
In 2017, we are continuing to build on the
strong foundation set during the past years
and further establish ourselves as a fast
and flexible service organisation fully capable to respond to market needs.

12
14

BRAND

B

BRAND STRATEGY
DO YOU

B R A N D STR ATEGY

2016 was the Year of the Cat. We moved sport and
fashion forward by staying true to our brand values.
The year was characterised by authenticity and creativity,
giving PUMA newfound momentum that will continue to
drive us forward as the world’s fastest sports brand.
RIHANNA

Brand Overview

–

ANDRE DE GRASSE

12 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

–

–

CARA DELEVINGNE

–

For PUMA, Sport is Lifestyle. Usain Bolt
proved it with his spectacular performance in Rio. The world marvelled at his
speed and joined in his celebration. Usain
showed that sport and lifestyle are best
when inseparable. The closer they are, the
more exciting they become and the more
impact they have.

celebrated from the EURO 2016 in France
to the Olympics in Rio. We introduced stylish women’s training collections, revived
and reinvented the PUMA Disc, and
launched another chapter in PUMA Tricks
boots. We merged sport and streetwear
cues to create the Fierce and the IGNITE
evoKNIT. We found our stride, turned goals
into realities, and achieved a shift in the
perception of our brand.

In 2016, we made an impact by merging the
best from both worlds. We competed and

Our brand visibility increased thanks to
purposeful partnerships with ambassadors

We trust our instincts to make unexpected choices that push
sport forward.

CONFIDENT

Nothing comes between us
and realising our dreams.
Ever.

JOYFUL

BRAVE

BRAND VALUES
We do everything with conviction. We make
strong statements. We are bold.

DETERMINED

In 2016, our Forever Faster brand values
came to life. The PUMA Fenty by Rihanna

Collection proved that brave design
not only makes an impact, but also
performs incredibly well in the market.
Cara Delevingne’s confident voice set
the tone for our new women’s campaign,
‘DO YOU’.
Leicester City were determined to win the
English Premier League and they rose
to victory against all odds. In 2016, we
saw the value of joyful in many moments
from Red Bull’s Daniel Ricciardo drinking
from his shoe to Usain Bolt and Andre De

Grasse smiling as they crossed the 200m
semi-final finish line.

–

from sport and culture. Footballers Antoine
Griezmann and Héctor Bellerín, Grammywinning artist The Weeknd, entrepreneur
and Snapchat queen Kylie Jenner, and
New York City Ballet dancers Mimi Staker
and Olivia Boisson are just some examples.
Their personalities and performances elevated our game, and they have helped us
to tap into young consumers’ desires and
connect with them in meaningful ways.

HÉCTOR BELLERÍN

–

We live to play the game. We revel in the pure joy of sport, competition and play.

Joyful keeps us coming back for more – and
more is what we want in 2017. Our success
comes from working together as a PUMA
Family, and togetherness creates momentum. If we continue to focus our energy on
the things that are working for us, we will
turn 2017 into an even greater success.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 13

DO YOU
They make rules. They impose dress
codes. They even assigned you a colour
at birth. But you? You defy the status quo.
You don’t take “no” for an answer. You
prove them wrong by proving yourself right.
You Do You.
This women’s campaign has set out with a
goal: to connect and resonate with women around the world and inspire them to be
the best, truest versions of themselves. Its
voice drives a conversation. It speaks with
conviction. The campaign inspires women
to accept who they are, make their own
rules, and take ownership of themselves.
It encourages women to be confident, motivated and never willing to compromise
on anything, from their personal style to
their workouts to their life. The beauty of
it: it never uses the word “women” and yet
women just get it. The campaign’s strong
alignment between fashion-forward products and highly influential ambassadors
has driven PUMA’s women’s business to
newer, bolder levels.

RONNIE JEFFERSON
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF FINISH LINE (USA)
The PUMA brand has carved out a position that
has a sharp point specific to winning with Her
not just verbally but by delivering exciting
new product that‘s resonating with female
consumer at retail.
JOCHEN SCHNELL
BOARD MEMBER INTERSPORT GERMANY (EUROPE )
PUMA’s new collections, and especially the women’s
offerings, have been spot on. Its DO YOU campaign
resonated well with our customers and continuously
increased the demand for our Women’s Training products.
The campaign is proof of PUMA’s successful marketing
strategy, which is also reflected by sell-through figures
above our expectations.
N’KALE MCNEIL
DIRECTOR OF MARKETING OF SHOE CITY (USA)
DO YOU means gone is the day of following the ”it“ girl.
PUMA has empowered her to be the ”now“ girl. When she
hears PUMA say DO YOU, she knows her fashion expression has no limits.
MARCELO FERNÁNDEZ
BUYING DIRECTOR OF DABRA (LATAM)
…PUMA is showing that it can be an authority
in the Women‘s market.
JOSÉ AGUSTÍN TORRES
SR FTW BUYER OF RIPLEY (LATAM)
…I have no doubt that, if you keep moving forward
into this direction, PUMA will be the No 1 Women‘s
sports brand…

14 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

–

LEW KIMBLE
EVP & CEO OF FOOTLOCKER INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE )
PUMA has connected to the female consumer
through its industry-leading DO YOU campaign.
The campaign is not only delivering Women‘s
footwear sales growth, but also market
leadership in our doors.

CARA DELEVINGNE

–

EXECUTIVE OF YY SPORTS, POU SHENG GROUP (CHINA)
With the DO YOU campaign, PUMA has strengthened its
footprint in the women‘s athletic world. It‘s a strong
combination between feminine needs and subtile
elegance, pure sport and iconic lifestyle.
JODI BROWN
WOMEN‘S SENIOR BUYER OF SNEAKERVILLA (USA)
DO YOU means to embrace who you are as a strong,
intelligent, beautiful woman. PUMA has pushed this
empowering movement by putting women at the
forefront of a male-dominated market.
MARK PETEREIT
HEAD OF BUYING OF SNIPES (EUROPE )
DO YOU combines the best of both worlds - Sports and
Fashion. PUMA brings together cutting-edge products and
authentic ambassadors, continuing its success story. No
doubt PUMA has become the most relevant sports fashion
brand for Her.
EXECUTIVE OF STRATIGIC ONLINE ACCOUNT (EUROPE )
I’m impressed in seeing the kind of collabs you’re
doing, the type of product innovation that comes
from them and the great fashion there is within
them.

–

MIMI STAKER & OLIVIA BOISSON

–

–

BASKET HEART

–

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 15

17
18
20
22
24

SPORTSTYLE
Sportstyle
Kids

26
26
30

LICENSING

31

ACCESSOIRES

33

PRODUCT

PERFORMANCE
Teamsport
Running and Training
Golf
Motorsport

P ER FO RMANCE

In light of our “Forever Faster” mission,
PUMA looks back on an outstanding sports
year, having brought excitement, innovation, style, performance and a high level
of brand heat to the world of sports. Our
performance offering benefitted from the
positive echo that our brand ambassadors
created in the world of fashion and sports,
elevating PUMA to the next level. The following sections provide an overview of
the sporting highlights and key activities
in each of our performance categories in
2016.

P
OLIVIER GIROUD
Player of the French
national team, third in
the scoring table ranking of
the EURO 2016.
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 17

TE AM SP O RT

With dual colourway to
success at the EURO 2016:
PUMA Tricks

LEICESTER CITY

2016 was in many ways a successful year
for the Teamsport segment of PUMA. The
EURO 2016 in France was a great stage to
showcase PUMA as an innovative and design-driven sports brand. With an on-field
presence of almost 40 percent across all
matches, PUMA’s five participating teams
secured strong brand visibility with their
kits. PUMA star Antoine Griezmann became top scorer and player of the EURO
2016 and was voted best player of the
Spanish “La Liga” 2015/16. In summer, we
unveiled the first kits for Chivas, one of the
biggest clubs in Mexico. Signing with Chivas was an important step for PUMA to give
our brand superb awareness in the Central
American and North American markets.
18 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA is also a proud sponsor of the 2016
Olympic handball champion and Gold Medal winner Denmark in addition to some top
players such as silver medallist Luc Abalo
from France, and German bronze medallist
Tobias Reichmann.

PUMA on Top of the English
Premier League
2016 was a success story for two of our
Premier League teams, Arsenal Football
Club and Leicester City FC. Both teams
presented themselves in top form and
showed magnificent on-pitch performances, with Leicester City becoming the biggest surprise in international football. The

underdogs played consistently well all season and won the Premier League in spectacular fashion, beating the biggest names
in English football. Arsenal performed
equally well and finished in second place,
leaving behind their London rivals Tottenham in a thrilling season finale.

Antoine Griezmann Voted
Player of the Tournament
Antoine Griezmann became one of PUMA’s
strongest brand ambassadors in 2016. He
underlined this title by playing an extraordinary tournament in his home country for
“Les Bleus” and was also voted best player
of the Spanish 2015/16 “La Liga” season.

ANTOINE GRIEZMANN

Head of Marketing UK

"Without doubt one of the most special moments of my PUMA career was when
Leicester City Football Club became the first PUMA club in history to be crowned
Premier League Champions. The fairy tale story captured both the media and
fans’ imagination. Over 240,000 fans took to the streets of Leicester to celebrate their victorious champions. Just twelve months earlier, Leicester City had
fought to narrowly avoid relegation, before defying odds of 5,000:1 to top the
league in the 2015/16 season."

He dazzled opponents with his speed, agility and goal-scoring ability. Griezmann also
managed to place a spotlight on our dual
coloured PUMA Tricks boots at the EURO
2016 by progressing to be the best goal
scorer and player of the tournament.

Strong Brand Presence on the
Pitch: PUMA Tricks at Euro 2016

ADA HEGERBERG

Our PUMA Tricks attracted a lot of attention during this year’s EURO 2016 in
France. They stood out with their unique
dual colourway and enabled our players to
perform at their very best. Stars like PUMA
player Olivier Giroud, who was ranked third
in the scoring table, as well as Portugal‘s

MOMENTUM

Ruth How

Rui Patrício, who emerged as the Goalie of
the Tournament and European Champion,
sported PUMA’s yellow-pink footwear and
equipment on the pitch. The EURO 2016
spiked a positive hype around our Tricks
products and created brand heat and desirability for PUMA as a football brand.

ing for a lightweight and innovative boot
combined with the benefits of classic leather material.

Redefining Leather

The German women’s football team
showed a great display of wonderful football at this year’s Olympic Games in Rio
and rightfully won the Gold Medal. The
majority of female players in the German
national squad were equipped with PUMA
football boots. During the tournament the
players created great brand awareness,
proving that PUMA is designed to win.

PUMA launched the all-new evoTOUCH, a
leather football boot with unrivalled control
and exceptional touch, designed for playmakers like Cesc Fàbregas or Santi Cazorla. PUMA’s evoTOUCH is set to shake up
the field of leather football boots, offering a
lighter and faster solution for players look-

Majority of Female Players in
the German National Squad
Wear PUMA

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 19

–

USAIN BOLT

–

RUNNI N G AND TR AINING

20 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

IGNITE DUAL

Great Performances of PUMA
Athletes at the Rio Olympics

Taking Performance Wear to
the Next Level

The sporting summer 2016 was dominated by Usain Bolt, once again delivered a
world-class performance by winning an
Olympic Gold medal in each of the three
sprinting events. At the same time, the
commentary around the games was buzzing about his custom-made red and golden
PUMA spikes. In total, ten Gold, five Silver
and nine Bronze medals were the yield
of the PUMA-equipped Olympic teams
of Jamaica, Bahamas, Cuba and Grenada alongside the Track & Field teams of
Switzerland, the Dominican Republic and
Barbados. PUMA’s product team did a
great job linking the on-track performance
apparel and footwear with our commercial
offerings.

PUMA has continued to develop into an
established, reliable and credible brand
in performance running. 2016 saw a completely new version of our NightCat and
PWRWARM-based apparel and footwear.
We have designed functional as well
as fashionable footwear products such
as the SPEED 500 IGNITE NIGHTCAT,
IGNITE DUAL NIGHTCAT and SPEED
300 IGNITE NIGHTCAT complemented by
apparel products like the Thermo R Vent
Jacket, PWRWARM, DryCell and StormCell technology – all packed with adaptive technology, which protects the athlete
against the cold and rain whilst providing
perfect visibility in the dark. PUMA’s key
commercial footwear product, the IGNITE
Dual, received massive attention throughout 2016. Its main Red Blast colourway tied
in perfectly with the Olympic on-track performance graphics and became the most
successful IGNITE shoe since the release
of the original runner.

Fabio Kadow
Head Of Marketing PUMA Brazil

MOMENTUM

”Unrivalled highlight of 2016? The Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro! It was an
honour for every Brazilian to be the host of the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio. The
opportunity to work closely with outstanding professionals, especially Usain Bolt
and the PUMA Global team, was a unique experience. The press conference of the
Jamaican Olympic Association was a real highlight. For the first time in history,
PUMA outran its main competitors in number of press articles published during
the Olympic Games. PUMA Brazil is proud to be part of this momentum.“

The Future is Female

Keeping Up the Pace

Our PUMA Fierce Footwear line slays with
innovative performance gear merged with
contemporary styling. Launched in April
2016 and worn by style icon Kylie Jenner,
the PUMA Fierce features a lightweight
lace-less design that mixes performance
technology and street-worthy style. Also,
PUMA’s entire Sports Bra offerings of 2016
have been a big win for the brand as they
provide comfortable and individual fit, look
competitive and come in great styles. Collaborations between our Business Units
inspired the Gold Pack Design featured on
both PUMA Sports Bra & Leggings Apparel
and the Fierce Trainer, which was worn and
promoted by Kylie Jenner and achieved a
strong sell-through at Footlocker stores.

The seasons to come will continue to underscore that PUMA is back as a performance
brand with a strong Caribbean Track & Field
portfolio as well as top athletes around the
world. In addition to our outstanding roster of male athletes, we strongly continue
to believe that the future is female. That’s
why we have filled our product pipeline
with fashionable and functional products
for women. Our Training and Sportstyle
ambassadors such as Rihanna, Cara
Delevingne and Kylie Jenner stand for a
young generation of confident, successful
and popular young women. In addition to
our performance ranges, we will continue
to drive our Women’s Business to the next
level with innovative Footwear, Apparel and
Cross Business Unit collaborations.

R
U

N

KYLIE JENNER

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 21

GO L F
KING LTD
Empower your driving with
the KING LTD!

COBRA PUMA GOLF Delivers
Performance and Style
Throughout 2016, PUMA Golf continued
to deliver stylish, performance-ready golf
apparel, footwear and accessories to the
market, while COBRA Golf introduced
technology-rich, game-changing equipment. Together, COBRA PUMA Golf delivers a full 360 degree package of innovative
products and fashion-forward style that
promotes game enjoyment, helping golfers
22 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

of all levels play in confidence and style.

Roster Filled With Stylish,
Talented Players
COBRA PUMA Golf welcomed rising PGA
TOUR star Bryson DeChambeau to its
team, generating tremendous buzz in the
industry and adding excitement around his
equipment, style and scientific approach
to the game. Throughout the 2016 season,
Rickie Fowler and Lexi Thompson contin-

ued to top the headlines, dressed to the
nines in PUMA Golf apparel, footwear and
accessories, with COBRA Golf equipment
in their bags. COBRA PUMA Golf’s 2016
roster of golf talent also included Graham
DeLaet, Jonas Blixt, Will MacKenzie, Søren
Kjeldsen and Jesper Parnevik along with
brand ambassadors Greg Norman, Holly
Sonders, Blair O’Neal and Kelly Slater. The
participation of PUMA golfers in the 2016
Olympic Games, where golf took centre
stage at one of the biggest events in sports

RICKIE FOWLER

IGNITE SPIKELESS SPORT

IGNITE HI-TOP
IGNITE SPIKELESS SPORT

Innovation continued to be at the forefront
of all COBRA PUMA Golf as the brand
kicked off 2016 with the return of KING to
the product line launching the KING LTD
family. Fuelled by research in space, the

–

More Excitement and Innovation
to Come…
COBRA PUMA Golf will continue to introduce breakthrough technologies to the
market in 2017, creating buzz and excitement around its innovative equipment.
PUMA Golf is on trend to continue making
a splash in the footwear category as well
as on the apparel side with its premium
bottoms and tops featuring sophisticated
graphics and ultralight fabrics.

LEXI THOMPSON

Return of the KING

KING LTD woods feature a revolutionary
SpacePort design that enabled PUMA’s
R&D team to strategically position the Center of Gravity and make COBRA Golf’s key
internal speed and stability technologies
visible for the first time. The KING F6 and
F6+ family of products hit the market with
a bang, making personalised distance and
adjustable Center of Gravity available to
golfers of all levels.

–

for the first time in almost a decade, had
a very positive impact for COBRA PUMA
Golf, drawing a strong international audience and helping to promote our brand.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 23

MOTOR SPORT
No One is Faster than the Cat

–

–

24 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

DANIEL RICCIARDO

–

MARCO WITTMANN CROSSES THE FINISH LINE AS A CHAMPION

–

2016 was a fantastic year for PUMA Motorsport, with extraordinary momentum on
the racing track. Formula 1 saw a fantastic
season and pure dominance by the PUMA
teams MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS,
RED BULL RACING and Scuderia FERRARI. MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS not
only sealed their third consecutive Constructors Championship in a row, but also
set the stage for Nico Rosberg to win his
first ever Drivers’ World Championship title
just ahead of his teammate Lewis Hamilton.
Our new partnership with RED BULL

–

RACING underpins PUMA’s mission to be
Forever Faster. PUMA again pushed the
boundaries of product design and racewear technology, showing off the new
PUMA RED BULL RACING collection in
February 2016.
Nico Rosberg’s close title race against
Lewis Hamilton exemplifies this year’s outstanding accomplishments of the MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS team powered
by PUMA’s high performance race gear.

FORMULA 1 CHAMPION NICO ROSBERG AND TEAM

–

BMW
X-CAT
DISC

BMW M Grille
X-CAT

Adding Titles to the Stack
PUMA partner Marco Wittman became
the first BMW driver in the history of the
DTM series to win two Drivers’ Championship titles. He was crowned champion for
the second time in his career after finishing fourth in the final race of the year at
Hockenheimring in Germany. Furthermore,
Simon Pagenaud won his first IndyCar
Driver’s Championship, capping the season with a dominating race victory at Sonoma Raceway.

BMW X-CAT DISC: “The Gina”
PUMA released the latest edition to its
DISC footwear franchise, the metallic silver BMW X-CAT DISC with its futuristic

appeal. Designworks, a BMW Group subsidiary, approached PUMA with the aim
to develop the special fabric applied over
the metal chassis. Through this collaboration, Designworks spearheaded the design
process for the ultramodern PUMA X-Cat
concept shoe inspired by the revolutionary
concept car with a seamless material outer
shell.

Outlook
Be prepared for another exciting PUMA
Motorsport year. 2017 features highlights
like the launch of the Ferrari EvoKnit, Lifestyle Evo and Against The Element collections such as brand new Replica collections
for MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS, RED
BULL RACING and Scuderia FERRARI.

–

NICO ROSBERG CELEBRATING

–

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 25

S PORTST YLE

FENTY PUMA by Rihanna
“This is not only a representation of
who I am and how I dress, but also
pushes the boundaries of what I
wanted to create with PUMA.”

Rihanna

PUMA’s Sportstyle Business exemplifies how we influence and shape
culture and lifestyle through the lens of sports on our “Forever Faster”
brand platform. Our heritage in sports serves as an inspiration to deliver
innovative performance and sports-inspired products as well as classic
silhouettes. With our innovative Sportstyle design approach we reach out
to women and men alike who seek authentic style rooted in sports.
26 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

traditional female and male silhouettes and
blurred the lines between genders. Later
in the year, Rihanna presented her Spring/
Summer 2017 FENTY PUMA by Rihanna
collection at the Paris Fashion Week. This
second collection takes inspiration from
18th century France during the era of Louis
XVI and fuses with a street style vibe.

–

In August 2016, PUMA and Careaux
teamed up to intensify the collaboration
with the Dutch graphic designer, social
media face and Sneakerhead Caroll Lynn.
Objects in romantic, feminine illustrations
on canvas, bring cool and classy styles to
footwear and apparel and reflect her personality. Colourful and optimistic designs
highlight her signature rose print called
“The Dedication Flower”.

PUMA X CAREAUX

After the highly anticipated presentation of
her initial FENTY PUMA by Rihanna collection at the New York Fashion Week in
spring 2016, international music and fashion icon Rihanna saw her collection hitting
the stores worldwide in September. Mixing
cultural influences with gothic overtones
and exaggerated volumes and proportions,
PUMA’s Creative Director challenged the

PUMA x Careaux: Combining
Cool and Classy

–

FENTY PUMA by Rihanna:
Nothing Short of Fearless

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 27

LONDON
SELECT

PUMA X TRAPSTAR

28 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA x TRAPSTAR:
Embracing Underground
Subculture

PUMA X STAPLE

PUMA and Trapstar release the star within. Forged from underground subculture,
this London-based lifestyle brand – and
its founders, Mike, Lee and Will – takes its
influence from iconic cinema, photography,
music and contemporary art. Transcending the ethos of the brand through designs
that follow true inspiration, Trapstar joined
with PUMA SELECT in 2016 to remix their
vision of streetwear with iconic silhouettes.

PUMA x STAPLE:
Inspired by the Concrete Jungle
of NYC
In September 2016, PUMA and New Yorkbased imprint Staple returned with a new
collaboration. The project found the two
working on the iconic PUMA Suede and
the BLAZE OF GLORY. The PUMA x
STAPLE Suede boasts Staple’s iconic
“Pigeon” colour scheme of grey, black and
white, offered up in three iterations. On
each pair, the heel has been “dipped” in the
“Pigeon Pink” shade, while co-branding

in turn takes over the tongue. The BLAZE
OF GLORY then features a combination
of all “Pigeon” colour schemes, done up in
suede and mesh.

PUMA & Kylie Jenner:
Bringing Classics Back to the
Street
PUMA put the limelight on a young roster
of tastemakers who make waves in the
music and entertainment arena like style

–
–

–

PUMA x Usain Bolt:
Standing Out Through a
Dynamic, Modern and Clean
Design
In the summer of 2016, PUMA launched the
new Usain Bolt Lifestyle collection, which
took inspiration from the Jamaican Olympic
Track & Field collection. PUMA increased
the assortment, branded with the name of
the fastest man alive, with Training, Accessories, Headwear and Footwear to match.
We also used new materials, graphics and
executions, creating a dynamic, modern
and clean design language. The spirit of
the Olympics and Usain Bolt’s unparalleled
legacy create a powerful synergy.

–

icon and social phenomenon Kylie Jenner,
snap queen and director of vibes YesJulz,
and hip hop’s catchiest duo, Rae Sremmurd.
As a cool nod to the past, PUMA tapped
legendary OG street photographer Jamel
Shabazz to shoot the young influencers in
their Suedes and streetwear garb in Brooklyn. Since its debut in 1968, the PUMA
Suede has become a benchmark for footwear design and enjoyed an amazing run
as cultural artefact, made famous by athletic
greats like 60’s track star Tommie Smith and
70’s basketball legend Walt “Clyde” Frazier.
This campaign and its ambassadors exemplify how we shape fresh, innovative styles
with the rich heritage of our brand.

KYLIE JENNER

KYLIE JENNER

USAIN BOLT

–

–

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 29

KI DS

PUMA X SUPERMAN
PUMA x SESAME STREET:
Trendy Kids Styles to Conquer
the World
In January 2016, PUMA partnered with
Sesame Workshop, the organisation
behind Sesame Street, to introduce a
kid’s collection inspired by the well-loved
characters of the long-running show. The
PUMA x SESAME STREET collection
includes timeless footwear styles from the
PUMA archive in mini versions coupled
with designs featuring Sesame Street’s
adorable set of characters. Completing
the collection are accessories perfect for
school days or play dates – backpack, play
sack and water bottles.

PUMA X SESAME STREET
30 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

PUMA x SUPERMAN:
Kids Gain Superpowers
In February 2016, PUMA joined forces with
Warner Bros. Consumer Products to create a kids collection inspired by one of the
world’s most iconic superheroes, Superman. Since first capturing the attention of
kids and adults across the globe in 1938,
DC Comics’ Superman’s “S-Shield” has
become one of the world’s most famous
and striking symbols. For the hero-in-training, the PUMA x SUPERMAN collaboration
includes classic footwear styles in mini versions, all of which are available in Superman’s suit colourways and feature the
iconic “S-Shield” on the reverse. PUMA’s
timeless silhouettes including the Suede,
Carson Runner and Cabana Racer have all
been given a heroic treatment.

LIC ENSIN G
PUMA’s strategy for licensing the PUMA brand focuses on
building presence and awareness in product categories
that are outside the scope of the company’s core areas
of expertise, but that are complementary to PUMA’s
business. They add value to PUMA’s brand strength and
appeal whilst offering desirable and compelling products
to the end consumer.

Enhancing the PUMA Brand and
Complementing PUMA’s Core
Product Ranges
PUMA grants the rights for eyewear,
watches, safety boots and personal care
products to specialist, market-leading
third-party companies. These companies
then design, develop, manufacture and
distribute products bearing the PUMA trademarks and logos in line with PUMA’s
brand positioning and target the PUMA
consumer.

PUMA Fragrances by L’Oréal
In September 2016, L’Oréal, PUMA’s license partner in the personal care category,
launched the first PUMA Fragrances products. The range features six deodorant
body sprays targeting millennial consumers. The product range was initially launched in France prior to the international
roll-out and was supported by a significant
marketing campaign across media including TV, social media and digital platforms.
The first campaign featured Usain Bolt and
Antoine Griezmann as brand ambassadors
for PUMA Fragrances.
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 31

KERING

EYEWEAR
PUMA Eyewear
by Kering Eyewear
Since July 2015, PUMA has partnered with
Kering Eyewear for the essential category
of sunglasses and optical frames. In 2016,
this led to the launch of a range of performance, sportstyle, active and kids’ sunglasses, which was complemented by a range
of optical frames shortly afterwards. With
distribution in optical specialist stores and
distributors in over 65 countries, Kering
Eyewear launches two seasonal collections
per year. The eyewear design fully embodies the unmistakable identity of the brand.
32 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

It showcases iconic patterns, colours and
materials from highly recognized sportstyle
products like the PUMA Suede.

PUMA Watches by MYWA
PUMA watches are designed, developed
and distributed by PUMA’s longstanding
partner MYWA, with a wide range of products and distribution in over 50 countries.

PUMA Safety Footwear by ISM
Since 2002, ISM, an established German manufacturer and distributor of safe-

ty shoes, has been PUMA’s partner
for PUMA SAFETY shoes. 2016 saw
the introduction of the new SAFETY KNIT™ inspired by the PUMA
evoKNIT. In addition, ISM launched
the next generation of the REBOUND
line which offers optimised cushioning capacity and comfort to reduce
physical fatigue to the wearer. With
an extensive product line, ISM distributes PUMA Safety Footwear in more
than 35 countries.

AC C E S SORIES
PUMA’s Accessories Business Unit complements the
other assortments with a strong and varied accessories’ collection covering Sportstyle Core, Prime & Select,
Running & Training and Motorsport in all distribution
channels. We aim to be unique and innovative in all
the categories we play in, delivering a strong desirable
standalone bag and headwear offer. Our comprehensive
and tiered “back to school” offer is highly competitive in
terms of features and price, and is therefore one of our
main business drivers.

Rihanna Drives a New
& Unique Style Era

Driving Performance
Innovation

Our key focus in 2016 was to develop our
female business with products specifically
developed for women, which were showcased by our female assets. Our design-led
approach towards the FENTY PUMA by
Rihanna collection is one of our greatest
successes.

For the Running & Training segment we
have created innovative performance products such as the DuoCELL visor in head
wear or the evoKNIT technology in small
accessories to answer the needs of our
target consumers. With headwear being a
crucial category to drive brand visibility and
exposure, we offer a wide range of performance and sportstyle caps and beanies.
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 33

35

DISTRIBUTION

D

DISTRIBUTION
STRATEGY

D I STR I BUTION STR ATEGY
FRESH AND SOPHISTICATED
IN-STORE LOOK FOR PUMA

Brand Mix
The PUMA Group owns the brands PUMA
and Cobra Golf as well as the affiliate company Dobotex. Dobotex is a product-licensing specialist that designs, produces and
distributes underwear and socks for global
sports and lifestyle brands.

Regional Mix
PUMA is structured into four regions:
Europe, EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), North America and
Latin America. As our Asian markets are
quite heterogeneous, our Asia-Pacific areas interact directly with our global organisation with no regional reporting level in
between. Each region and area is led by
a General Manager with full profit and loss
responsibility for all countries in the man-

aged region or area. In terms of regional
sales priorities, PUMA will continue to
leverage its strengths in key growth markets in EEMEA, Asia and Latin America
such as India, China and Mexico to ensure
stable sales growth for PUMA. In Europe
and North America we have been gaining considerable momentum. Our strategic focus in both regions is to build on
these recent accomplishments and our
improved sell-through to continue repositioning PUMA and increase our presence
in quality wholesale distribution channels.

Channel Mix
PUMA distributes its products via three
different distribution channels: Wholesale,
PUMA-owned and operated retail stores,
and eCommerce. Wholesale accounted
for 78.1% of our net sales in 2016 and has

remained the principal sales channel of the
PUMA Group. PUMA expects the highest
growth rate for the eCommerce distribution channel. Our focus on Wholesale will
be to continue promoting joint product
and marketing programmes together with
key accounts and to build on the positive
momentum of 2016. These strategic measures and the recent surge in sell-through
rates are to increase the business share
of our most important accounts in PUMA’s
total wholesale net sales and hence our
net sales quality. In Retail, PUMA has
continued to roll the Forever Faster store
design at 70 locations worldwide in the end
of 2016. The new and refurbished stores
enhance our position in marketing and
story-telling and they illustrate our product
technologies and strengthen PUMA’s positioning as a sports brand. Where comparable, our refurbished stores report a 10 to 20

SIX:02 STORE
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 35

FENTY

–
RIHANNA
–

FENTY

36 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

–

THE NEW PUMA STORE ON CALLE FUENCARRAL, MADRID

percent improvement in terms of net sales.
PUMA will continue to open new stores in
strategic growth cities, with emphasis on
driving traffic into and improving the sales
productivity of our owned & operated retail
stores. In 2017, we will further launch a new
store design for our factory outlet stores to
create a better environment for PUMA to
tell a powerful brand story and increase
product sales.

-

Footwear is and will be the foundation of
PUMA’s business and its key strategic priority, having generated 45 percent of net
sales in 2016. In line with our mission to
become “The Fastest Sports Brand in the
World”, we will continue to leverage our
clear positioning in sports to sell performance and sports-inspired lifestyle products.

Product Sales Mix

Improvement of our
Distribution Quality

PUMA sells and markets footwear, apparel and accessories in categories such as
Football, Running and Training, Golf, Motorsport and Sportstyle. With a heritage of
designing shoes for more than 65 years,

Strong relationships with our main retail
partners are a key building block in ensuring the commercial success of our products. Our strong partnership with Foot
Locker in North America is a good exam-

Senior Vice President, SCM & Logistics Americas

“This year we brought live the cornerstone to our U.S. DC strategy by consolidating warehouses and implementing the largest AutoStore in the world to
keep up with ever more demanding consumer and customer expectations.
We achieved a 95% rate in delivering ecommerce within 24 hours during the
critical ‘Black Friday’ and ‘Cyber Monday’ period. We aren’t done yet – we will
be even faster and see more improvement in 2017.”

ple. For several years now, we have rolled
out our joint retail concept, “PUMA Lab”.
Not only has our business in the PUMA
Lab stores accelerated, but we also benefit
from positive spillovers to other Foot Locker locations and other banners of the Foot
Locker Retail, Inc. The latest highlight has
been the outstanding performance of our
women’s line at Foot Locker’s Six:02 women-only stores, where PUMA sales more
than doubled. PUMA has been at the top
of the best-selling brands in Six:02’s Manhattan store since it opened in September.
PUMA is also gaining traction among other
customers in the United States. Business
with athletic specialty chains has more than
doubled in North America, while our shoe
chain business has recorded double-digit

growth. Our wholesale business in Europe
reported double-digit growth in 2016 as
a result of improved product line-ups and
brand heat, driven by a more disciplined
management of distribution channels and
product lifecycles. In China, the vast majority of our business is generated by franchise partners such as Belle and the YY
Group, who opened around 200 additional
PUMA stores in 2016. We use PUMA flagship stores to enhance our brand visibility
and to set benchmarks for our franchise
partners to improve store productivity.
Driven by strong market trends, eCommerce and Football are contributing to our
high-pace growth in China. Across geographies, we can report strong momentum
driven by improved product line-ups and

MOMENTUM

Helmut Leibbrandt

brand heat and by our reliable partnerships
with key retailers. We will continue to foster
these relationships with our most important
accounts in 2017.
–
NEW PUMA LAB IN COOPERATION WITH FOOT
LOCKER AT TIMES SQUARE, NEW YORK –
–

FENTY PUMA BY RIHANNA IN PUMA-STORE

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 37

–

39
48
57
68
69

SUSTAINABILITY

PUMA SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY 10FOR20
SOCIAL ASPECTS
ENVIRONMENT
GOVERNANCE
SUMMARY

PUMA SUSTAINABILIT Y ST R AT EGY 1 0 FOR2 0 1

In 2016, PUMA implemented some organisational changes and further refined our
sustainability strategy to better balance all
three dimensions of sustainability; Social,
Economic and Environmental, building on
our long history of sustainability and our established programmes. We also decided to
focus on two strategic priorities:
1) Sustainability and business need to go
hand in hand to achieve sustainable business. Therefore, we changed the setup of
our sustainability department last year and
embedded it into our PUMA International
Trading (PIT) entity. We also established an
Executive Sustainability Committee on corporate level. With these changes, we have
ensured that social, environmental and
governance aspects are taken into consideration when we do business; whether as
part of the legal framework of manufactur-

ing agreements that define the commercial
relationship between PUMA and our suppliers, or as an integral part of the bonus
agreements for the PUMA management
worldwide.
2) The aim of all our sustainability initiatives
is to create maximum positive impact. We
have identified two main drivers to achieve
this goal: the use of preferred materials for
our volume styles and the will to join forces with our industry peers to tackle supply chain related environmental and social
impacts. Therefore, we have implemented
ambitious material targets and further expanded our role in industry working groups
such as the Better Work Program of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and
International Finance Corporation (IFC), or
the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Foundation to support the creation and

implementation of industry-wide solutions.
In support of these priorities, we continue to
commit ourselves to the 10 Principles of the
United Nations Global Compact and have
linked our 10FOR20 Sustainability Targets
to the new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, we will focus on
our regional stakeholder dialogue events
and implementing our 10FOR20 Targets
Action Plan.
The Managing Directors of PUMA SE remain firmly committed to acting responsibly,
be it with our own employees, our business
partners, consumers, the communities
in which we operate, or within our supply
chain. For the first time we have included
activities of our material and component
suppliers into our sustainability reporting,
besides our own impacts and those of our
direct suppliers.

We trust in the continued support of our
shareholders and stakeholders. Please do
not hesitate to contact us with any sustainability-related questions or comments you
may have under sustainability@puma.com
or provide your feedback to this report on
our website.
Sincerely,

Lars Sørensen, Chief Operating Officer
G4-18, G4-22, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

1

SUSTAINABILITY | 39

At the end of 2015, we reached the end of
our last five-year sustainability target period, which had mainly focused on environ-

F.1

mental targets. From 2016 onwards, we
have set a broad range of new sustainability targets until 2020, or 10FOR20 Targets,

ranging from Health and Safety to Corporate Governance, and from Human Rights
to eliminating Hazardous Chemicals.

PUMA´s Sustainability Targets 10FOR20

Social Compliance
(Relates to SDG 3, 5, 8 and 10)

Stakeholder
Engagement

Governance

Environmental P&L

(Relates to SDG 8 and 16)

(Relates to SDG 7 and 12)

(Relates to SDG 17)

Compliance with industry standards/ ILO
Core Conventions for all key suppliers,
including suppliers of finished goods,
components, and materials

Human Rights
(Relates to SDG 3, 4, 5 and 10)

Embed Human Rights across our operations and suppliers. Positively impact the
communities where PUMA is present

Stakeholder dialogue;
Public reporting (GRI);
Consumer information

Maintain and run a state of the art
Compliance Management System
(incl. anti-corruption measures)

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20

Continue to report yearly on our environmental impact under the lead of Kering

Water & Air
(Relates to SDG 6)

Industry Good Practice for effluent treatment and air emissions are met by 90%
of PUMA key suppliers with wet processing facilities or responsible for significant
air emissions

Health & Safety

Climate

Chemicals

Materials

(Relates to SDG 3)

(Relates to SDG 13)

(Relates to SDG 3 and 6)

(Relates to SDG 12 and 15)

Zero fatal accidents;
Injury rate below industry average

40 | SUSTAINABILITY

Science-based CO2 reduction target
to be developed (2016) and implemented (2020)

Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
from our supply chain

More sustainable alternatives used for
our key materials (cotton, polyester,
leather, cardboard, PU)

SDG: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals

Cristina Fedato

Team Leader - SIPS, Collaborating Centre on
Sustainable Consumption and Production (CSCP)

“PUMA runs a strong sustainability
strategy, well connected to its business and also aligned to its culture and
stakeholders’ expectations, successfully
tackling many challenges in its supply
chain. With its strong reputation and a
premium product portfolio, a next natural
step would be to enhance its lifecycle thinking by embedding
sustainability downstream, inspiring consumers for more
sustainable lifestyles.”

In 2016, we started implementing our new
10FOR20 Sustainability Targets, which we
had set based on our Materiality Analysis,
the Environmental Profit and Loss Account,
as well as more than a decade of active
stakeholder dialogue. In order to do so, we
developed a 10FOR20 Action Plan with the
help of our newly created Executive Sustainability Committee and shared this plan
with key stakeholders and sustainability
experts during the 13th edition of Talks at
Banz.

During this process we received very valuable feedback, leading to the adaptation
of our 10FOR20 Target on water pollution,
which now also includes a reference to air
pollution, as well as several amendments
to our 10FOR20 Action Plan. For instance,
we discussed to add the topics of Circular
Economy and Fair Wages to our Action
Plan, following indications of our stakeholders. In the spirit of continuous improvement,
we will continue to review our 10FOR20
Targets on a regular basis.

We are convinced that our target-setting
is now better integrated into our strategy.
While, for example, in the past Health and
Safety aspects have been part of the routine of compliance audits since 1999, they
never had been measured beyond PUMA’s
own entities in terms of injury rates or other
key performance indicators. This information is taken into account now.
PUMA’s 10FOR20 Action Plan is our roadmap towards joint target achievement. Examples from the Action Plan are given in
the following chapters.
Our targets are supported by our sustainability management system, which includes
a new organisational structure, an updated version of the PUMA Code of Conduct
(http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/
standards/coc), new PUMA Sustainability
Handbooks (http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/standards/handbooks), as well as
several specialised databases for the collection of social, environmental, health and
safety, and governance information.
To expand the reach of our efforts and to
create maximum positive impact we have
recently added core suppliers of components and materials to our data collection
scope. Today, most of those databases
– which we often share with our industry
peers - are not limited to PUMA’s own entities but now reach deep into our supply
chain. We use, for example, a customised
version of the sustainability management

software Enablon to collect social and environmental performance data of our company’s own sites, but also of our core suppliers engaged in the manufacturing of our
products.
Table 1 gives an overview of our target performance. For a detailed summary of our
progress towards our individual targets,
please refer to the chapter for each target
area.

SUSTAINABILITY | 41

T.1

PUMA 10FOR20 Sustainability Targets Performance Summary

TARGET

2015
Baseline

2016

Performance

2017

Planned Actions
and Goals

2020
Target

STATUS
42 | SUSTAINABILITY

01

 takeholder
S
Engagement

02

Human Rights

Talks at Banz
S
 upplier Round Tables
(8 Round Tables with
participation of 273
factories)

Talks at Banz
S
 upplier Round Tables
including external
stakeholders and 312
suppliers

 arger stakeholder
L
meeting in Asia
S
 upplier Round Tables
including external stakeholders

 ontinued stakeholder
C
dialogue including
consumers

On track

Human Rights Screening performed

H
 uman Rights Assessment
(PUMA corporate level)
 mployee Volunteering Platform
E
started (6,827 volunteering hours
from PUMA employees)

 onduct a Human Rights AssessC
ment (supply chain)
L aunch official partnership with
Right To Play
E
 xpand employee volunteering
efforts

Embed
Human Rights across our
operations and suppliers
 ositively impact the communities
P
where PUMA is present

On track

03

 ocial
S
Compliance

All Tier 1 suppliers frequently
audited
 orkers complaints received
W
and progressed

 udits expanded to core materiA
al and component suppliers (84
suppliers audited)
A
 mount of Zero Tolerance
Issues prevailing at year end: 0

04


Health & Safety

Climate Change

O
 ccupational Health and Safety
(OHS) is part of compliance audits

 cience-based Targets
S
development announced

OHS

key performance indicators
data collected:

 cience-based Targets
S
submitted for review

Fatal accidents: • PUMA: 0
• Suppliers: 1

3
 % interim reduction target

Injury rate:

 bsolute Scope 2 emissions:
A
+4.8%

• PUMA: 0.84
• Suppliers: 4.17

Start transition from own PUMA
audit system to industry-wide
system

Zero fatal accidents

N
 o more individual brand audits
– all assessments shared with
other brands

Zero fatal accidents

On track

05

R
 educe average injury rates

 ignificantly reduce injury rates;
S
injury rates below industry average

Zero fatal accidents: on track for
PUMA corporate
Not on track for supply chain

Total relative emissions: -4%

Agreement

of Science-based
Targets


Emissions
on track for Sciencebased Targets

On track for total relative
emissions
 ot on track for absolute
N
Scope 2 emissions

06

Chemicals

C
 ommitment to Zero
Discharge of Hazardous
Chemicals

 doption of ZDHC ManufacA
turing Restricted Substances
List

M ove out of PFC chemistry

 o intentional use of hazN
ardous chemicals for PUMA
products

In progress

07

Water & Air

S
 tart of wastewater testing and
publication

D
 evelopment and publication of an
industry-aligned wastewater guideline
in collaboration with ZDHC
W
 astewater tests performed at 44
factories

Implementation of ZDHC wastewater
guideline at PUMA core suppliers
 evelopment of air emissions guideD
line


Industry
good practice on water
treatment and air emissions are met
by 90% of PUMA core suppliers

On track

08

Materials

Bluesign (polyester), Leather Working
Group (leather), and FSC (paper
& cardboard) certifications used in
significant volumes

Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) added to
existing initiatives
 chieved percentage of total specific
A
material volume:
• BCI: 19%
• Bluesign: 24% (Apparel),
21% (Accessories)
• FSC: 78%
• LWG: >90%

09

Environmental Profit and
Loss (EP&L)

 ering Group EP&L published (inK
cluding PUMA figures)


PUMA
EP&L shared with selected
stakeholders during “Talks at Banz”

Governance

PUMA Code of Ethics training with
low participation rate
Ethics

training participation rate: 60%

PUMA Code of Ethics training with
high participation rate
A
 nti-Corruption clause included in
Code of Conduct
E
 thics training participation rate: 97%

Targets:
• BCI: 30%
• Bluesign: 30%
• FSC: 90%
• LWG: 90%

PUMA EP&L published

Targets:
• BCI: 50%
• Bluesign: 50%
• FSC: 90%
• LWG: 90%

 UMA EP&L value significantly
P
reduced

On track

10

On track

K
 eep high participation rate in ethics
training
Start supplier training on anti-corruption efforts

State-of-the-art

Compliance Management System including anti-corruption

On track

SUSTAINABILITY | 43

PU M A’S SUSTAINABILIT Y O RG ANISAT IO N
The highest governance body at PUMA
in terms of sustainability is the Sustainability Committee at Administrative Board
(SE) level. The Board of Management
reports to PUMA’s majority sharehol-

der via this Committee. It is responsible for supervising PUMA’s sustainability
strategy. The Sustainability Committee
convened once in 2016. Current members of the Sustainability Committee are:

FRANÇOIS-HENRI PINAULT
JEAN-FRANÇOIS PALUS
MARTIN KÖPPEL

The organisational chart in figure 2 shows which functions within PUMA are involved in
sustainability topics.

F.2

CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, KERING
GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, KERING
EMPLOYEES‘ REPRESENTATIVE, PUMA

Sustainability Organisation within PUMA

PUMA Administrative
Board Sustainability
Committee

Corporate
Sustainability
Team

China Team
Bangladesh Manager

CEO
PUMA

COO
PUMA

Global Director
SourceCo

Team Head
Supply Chain
Sustainability

Head of
Corporate
Sustainability

Indonesia Manager
Vietnam Team
LATAM Manager
EMEA Manager

CSO Kering
Sport & Lifestyle

Legal
Logistics

Communications
Corporate
Sustainability
Steering Committee

Marketing
Operations
Sourcing
Product

44 | SUSTAINABILITY

Central Services

Human Resources
Innovation
Internal Audit
Strategy

STAK E HOLDER ENG AG EMENT 2 (1 0 FOR2 0 TARG ET NO. 1)

TARGET DESCRIPTION

Continue
and
expand PUMA’s Stakeholder Dialogue
and Public Non-Financial Reporting
in accordance with global standards;
Increase sustainability communication
towards consumers.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable
Development Goal 17.

Example from the
10FOR20 Action Plan:
ACTION Transform country level supplier round tables into regional stakeholder
meetings
KPIs
n Thematic and regional coverage of partnership initiatives
n 
Percentage of suppliers reached via
Round Table meetings
n Number of consumers reached with sustainability communication

PUMA continues to place strong emphasis on stakeholder dialogue and industry
collaboration. Therefore, the PUMA sustainability team works with a number of
national and international programmes
and engages extensively with stakeholders
and experts on a regional and international
level.
Our main global industry initiatives include the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the
ILO/ IFC Better Work Programme, the Fair
Labor Association, the Zero Discharge of
Hazardous Chemicals Foundation, as well
as the Apparel and Footwear Restricted
Substances Management Group.
Furthermore, we partner with more material specific organisations such as bluesign
technologies, the Leather Working Group,
the Better Cotton Initiative, and the Forest
Stewardship Council. Our global initiatives
are supported by regional initiatives like the
Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building
Safety, the Indonesia Protocol on Freedom

Roopa Nair

Head of Partnerships and Communications for
Better Work, International Labour Organization

“PUMA, a brand partner of ILO-IFC Better
Work, has demonstrated a serious
commitment to supporting Better Work’s
approach to improve working conditions in
factories that supply the company. We are
pleased to see PUMA taking a leading role,
including its function as representative of
the Better Work Global Advisory Committee. We are looking forward to welcoming PUMA’s valuable contributions and support
to scaling our impact in coming years, as well as its own
commitment to continue to grow and develop the partnership.”

of Association, or working with the Chinese National Apparel and Textile Council
on wastewater quality, as well as joining
forces with the UNHCR on promoting legal
employment for Syrian refugees in Turkey.
2

In addition, we partner with the German
Partnership for Sustainable Textiles and
are a member of the World Federation of
the Sporting Goods Industry.

G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

SUSTAINABILITY | 45

–
SEPTEMBER 2016
–

Examples of active stakeholder engagement under the lead of PUMA on a corporate level include our Talks at Banz, but
also our regional supplier round table meetings, which we opened up for participation
of external experts and stakeholders for
the first time in 2016. 312 suppliers attended our round table meetings that addressed topics such as relevant legal updates,
chemical management and PUMA’s sustainability strategy.

For more information on our stakeholder engagement please visit: http://about.
puma.com/en/sustainability/stakeholders.
Interested organisations and individuals
can also register for our stakeholder communication list by sending an e-mail to
sustainability.stakeholders@puma.com.

P U M A’ S M ATE R I A L A S PECTS 3

– PUMA‘S SUSTAINABILITY TEAM MEETS WITH SUPPLIERS AT THE PUMAVISION HEADQUARTER TO DISCUSS CURRENT TOPICS –

46 | SUSTAINABILITY

3

G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

Constant communication with our stakeholders helps us to stay focused on our
most material issues.
Therefore, we used the results of our existing Materiality Analysis and our supplier

round table meetings as well as ongoing
stakeholder dialogue when setting our
10FOR20 Targets to cover all sustainability-related material aspects.

Our most Material Aspects are covered by our 10FOR20 Sustainability Targets as listed below:
F.3

Material Aspect

10FOR20 Sustainability Target

Control Chemical Use and Discharge

Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals
(Target No. 6)

Water Use and Management

Water and Air (Target No. 7)

Energy Efficiency and CO2

Climate Change (Target No. 5)

Child and Forced Labour

Social Compliance and Human Rights
(Targets No. 2 and 3 )

Anti-Corruption

Governance (Target No. 10)

Transparency in the Supply Chain

Stakeholder Engagement and Social
Compliance (Targets No. 1 and 3)

Workers‘ Health & Safety

Health and Safety (Target No. 4)

PUMA‘s Materiality Analysis

Control chemical use
and discharge

Strengthen brand
positioning

Improve water use
and management

Fight against corruption

Improve energy
efficiency and
CO 2 emission
Improve product design
and development

Human Rights (Target No. 2)

Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials

Materials (Target No. 8)

Environment
Corporate
Supply Chain

Address supply
chain transparency
and performance

Improve workers’
health and safety

Product
Improve product quality

Living Wages

PUMA‘S MOST
MATERIAL ASPECTS

Not allow child and forced
labour in the supply chain

Focus on responsible
sourcing of raw materials

Work towards paying
a living wage

Moreover, we also covered the more business-related material aspects within our
Forever Faster brand transition:

Material Aspect

is covered by

Improving Brand Positioning

See report section “Brand“

Improving Product Design and
Development

See report section “Product Development
and Design“

Improving Product Quality

See report section “Product Development
and Design“

SUSTAINABILITY | 47

S O CI A L A SPECTS
HUMA N R I G H TS (10FOR20 TARG ET NO. 2 )
TARGET DESCRIPTION

Embed
Human
Rights across our operations and suppliers. Positively impact the communities
where PUMA is present.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 3, 4, 5 and 10.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Conduct a Human Rights assessment (own entities)
ACTION Set up an employee volunteering platform
KPIs
n Number of employee hours spent on community engagement
Respect for human rights, both at our own
company sites and within our supply chain,
forms the basis of any sustainability work
and programme PUMA has undertaken during the last 15 years.
It is therefore no surprise that our PUMA
Code of Conduct refers to Human Rights
48 | SUSTAINABILITY

as a core principle. With the 10FOR20 Targets, we have added a positive community impact dimension to the long-standing
compliance aspect.
In order to be able to fulfil our Human
Rights target, we have built on the results
of our Human Rights screening from 2015
and engaged the expert organisation twentyfifty to help us with conducting a Human
Rights assessment. Since most of our work
in the field of Human Rights so far has focused on the supply chain, we conducted
this Human Rights assessment for our own
entities in 2016.
The results of our assessment show that
overall we have managed the Human
Rights topic well, but it has also identified
some weak spots, such as contracted labour or the coverage of Human Rights in
our marketing and sponsorship activities.
For more detailed results, please refer to
figure 4.

Olgun Aydin
PUMA Supply-Chain Sustainability
Manager EMEA, Turkey

“My momentum was to present
PUMA’s approach and efforts
on the integration of Syrian refugees into the Turkish labour
market at a conference organised by UNHCR and the Fair Labor
Association. I felt honoured to accept an award for our efforts
on behalf of PUMA.”

MOMENTUM

F.4

PUMA‘s Human Rights Assessment at the Corporate Level

Employee
rights

Customers and
product safety

Privacy, data
security

Environment, health
and safety

Business partners/
third parties

Sponsorship

Marketing and sales

Integrity and
anti-corruption

Communities and
broader society

Policy

Assessing risks
and impacts

Integration and
action

Track and report

Grievances

Stakeholder
engagement

covered

On the community engagement side, we
have created a guideline for PUMA employees on the type of activities and organisations to support and set up a global plat-

partially

not covered

insufficient information

form on the PUMA intranet. We have also
set up a partnership with Right To Play, an
organisation engaged in the support of underprivileged children through sports.

More details on our community engagement programme are covered within the
People@PUMA section of this report.

SUSTAINABILITY | 49

SO C IAL C OM P LIANC E (1 0FOR2 0 TA R GE T N O. 3 )
TARGET DESCRIPTION

Compliance with
industry standards / ILO Core Conventions
for all core suppliers, including suppliers of
finished goods as well as component and
material suppliers.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 3, 5, 8 and 10.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Extend audit scope to materials
and component suppliers
ACTION Measure and manage social
KPIs (supply chain)

KPIs
n Number of Zero Tolerance Issues prevailing at year end
n Percentage of worker complaints resolved
n Social KPIs

Social Auditing
In the area of social compliance we have
made the decision to divide our supplier
base into core suppliers, who are responsible for over 80 percent of our business
volume, and non-core suppliers, who may
be used on a less frequent basis and with
lower order volumes.
We continue to assess both core and noncore suppliers for compliance on a regular
basis, but focus our own team’s efforts on
our core suppliers, while non-core suppliers are covered by third-party auditors.
These freed-up resources have allowed
50 | SUSTAINABILITY

us to expand our assessments deeper into
the supply chain. From 2016 onwards, our
core suppliers’ list also includes the major
component and material suppliers, while
we have started to systematically conduct
audits further upstream in our supply chain.
Those suppliers often have never received
any brand compliance audits before. In
total 428 factories were audited, some of
them more than once, leading to a total of
499 audits conducted in 2016.
For more information on our audit grading system, please refer to our website:

http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/
supply-chain/puma-s-auditing-process.
In an effort to reduce multiple brand audits
and audit fatigue, we have also started to
accept the assessment or audit reports
from the ILO Better Work Programme, of
which PUMA is a member, but also from
other brands as long as they are accredited
members of a multi-stakeholder organisation, such as the Fair Labor Association. 30
audit reports from external organisations
were accepted (6 percent out of our 499
audits).

T.2

Factory Audit Performance by Core and Non-Core Suppliers in 2016
Core

Rating

Tier 1
suppliers

Non-Core

Tier 2
suppliers

Tier 1
suppliers

Total

Tier 2
suppliers

A

31

6

27

6

70

B+

42

20

124

6

192

B-

15

28

72

4

119

C

0

9

28

3

40

D

0

1

5

1

7

88

64

256

20

428

Total

T.3

Factory Audit Performance 2014-2016
2015

2014

Rating

Tier 1

Tier 2

Total

Tier 1

2016

Tier 2

Total

Tier 1

Tier 2

Total

A

43

2

45

36

1

37

58

12

70

B+

145

12

157

156

16

172

166

26

192

B-

92

6

98

75

12

87

87

32

119

C

29

2

31

25

2

27

28

12

40

D
Total*

0

0

0

9

0

9

5

2

7

309

22

331

301

31

332

344

84

428

*Includes all Tiers and PUMA Group Sourcing as well as Licensee suppliers

The results in table 2 show that our core
Tier 1 suppliers have no C and D ratings as a consequence of our long-term
engagement and partnership. The deviation of suppliers in tiers of the supply

chain in table 3 demonstrates that most of our
Tier 2 suppliers were audited for the first time.
Therefore, we are not surprised that the ratings achieved are lower. Similar to our Tier 1
suppliers we will work also with component

and material suppliers towards continuous improvement. We rated seven suppliers with a D
rating in 2016. Four out of seven were phased
out or not admitted into our supply chain. For
the remaining three suppliers we have not yet

decided on whether or not to continue our
business relations and work on improvements.
Another seven C-rated suppliers were phased
out due to low prospects of improvement.

SUSTAINABILITY | 51

Janet Mensink

Project Director Social and Labor Practices, Sustainable Apparel Coalition

“The 10FOR20 Sustainability Strategy builds on industry collaboration and the
need to create impact on the ground. PUMA is actively supporting the Social &
Labor Convergence project, facilitated by SAC, and has expressed the intention
to use converged tools in lieu of its propriety ones, which is the right step to
achieve a breakthrough in the industry.”

Overall, our supply chain team identified
10 cases of zero tolerance issues in 2016.
These cases were mainly related to underpayment of minimum wages, and all of
them were satisfactorily resolved.
Since any audit or assessment can only
analyze the compliance situation at a given

F.5

time, we use two other tools to manage
and track performance of our suppliers:
our Code of Conduct posters include phone numbers and email adresses of our supply chain team, to offer worker complaints
channels for all employees of PUMA suppliers. Another tool is the Social KPI data

collection from our core suppliers.
Figure 5 gives an overview of worker complaints received in 2016 and the resolution
rates.
The numbers show that PUMA has installed a functional grievance mechanism for workers in major sourcing

Worker Complaints Categories and Resolution Rates 2014-2016

Year and no. of
complaints

2014 (69)

Resolution
rate (%)
88%

2015 (150)
2016 (72)

52 | SUSTAINABILITY

Others
(24%)

2016

99%

97%

Wages
(26%)

Working hours
(17%)

Human
Resources
Management
(33%)

regions. The resolution rate remains
stable between 97 and 99 percent for the
second year in a row.

Social Key Performance Indicators (S-KPIs)
We believe that focusing on worker complaints and Social KPIs rather than just on
“yes/no”-type audit questions will help us
and our suppliers to track performance improvements over time and also benchmark

T.4

suppliers among themselves. 2016 was the
second year of data collection for Social
KPIs. Therefore, we are still on a learning
curve together with our suppliers on how
that data is best collected, reported and

acted upon. Last year we reported figures
from China only. This year, we decided to
report on all major sourcing countries. The
results per country are summarized in table
4.

Selected Social KPI Average Figures from 70 PUMA Tier 1 Core Suppliers

KPI

Mexico

Bangladesh

India

Pakistan

China

Cambodia

Indonesia

Malaysia

Vietnam

Georgia

Madagascar

Mauritius

Turkey

EMEA
Average values from 8 suppliers

El
Salvador

EAST AND SOUTHEAST ASIA
Average values from 39 suppliers

Brazil

SOUTH ASIA
Average values from
14 suppliers

Argentina

LATIN AMERICA
Average values from
9 suppliers

Gross wage paid above minimum wage excluding overtime
and bonuses (%)

64

14

24

84

27

11

22

5

9

2

1

36

28

1

11

15

Gross wage paid above minimum wage including overtime and
bonuses (%)

99

24

48

135

89

28

36

124

73

34

58

97

95

71

56

39

Workers covered by social insurance (%)

100

100

100

100

100

94

99

62

99

96

100

93

100

100

93

100

Overtime work (hours per week)

0.1

2.5

6.6

2.2

9.5

3.9

0.2

13.3

7.1

5.6

14.4

5.3

3.2

15.1

9.1

8.3

Workers covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%)

97

100

0

44

0

0

0

80

36

67

0

92

0

0

43

11

Female workers (%)

49

80

65

57

43

67

11

67

88

85

37

83

96

66

80

51

Permanent workers (%)

100

100

100

56

100

95

85

100

92

92

100

90

100

100

100

100

SUSTAINABILITY | 53

Our first global evaluation of Social KPIs
reveals a clear need to promote collective
bargaining on the Indian subcontinent and
some additional countries. It also confirms
persisting challenges in social insurance
coverage for China. At the same time it
shows that social insurance coverage is
rather complete for most other countries
and that our core suppliers on average pay
more than 20 percent above minimum wage
(excluding overtime and bonuses). Including
overtime and bonuses this figure increases
to 80 percent. Average overtime per week
varies from 0.1 hours in Argentina to 15.1
hours in Madagascar. Going forward we will
use these Social KPIs to benchmark our
suppliers and drive performance over time,
creating positive impact on the ground.
Reporting on social compliance would not
be complete without referring to existing sys-

temic challenges and dilemmas, which still
persist in the supply chains of the apparel
and footwear industry in many major sourcing countries, including the supply chain of
PUMA. Those are:
n Weak enforcement of labour law and social insurance provisions by local authorities
n Low minimum wage levels leading to incentives for excessive overtime
n Immature industrial relations leading to
an anti-union bias of many employers
n Insufficient local infrastructure, such as
public transport systems
n Cultural differences and understanding
on how to define good governance
The dilemma we are facing is whether to
withdraw from certain, otherwise attractive,

sourcing markets in order to avoid these
systemic challenges or to stay engaged.
We are also trying to improve the situation
for the workers in our supplier factories,
thus securing very much needed local jobs
and supporting the economic development
in underdeveloped regions.
There is no easy answer to this dilemma.
We are convinced that we need to join forces
with our industry peers in multi-stakeholder
initiatives and with intergovernmental organisations like the ILO in order to see the
gradual improvements over time, which also
occurred during the development process
of most developed countries. Governmentled initiatives like the German Partnership
for Sustainable Textiles have the potential to further support and accelerate this
process.

Vendor Financing Programme
Continuing our efforts to provide an incentive to suppliers with good compliance and
sustainability ratings, the IFC and BNP Paribas offer attractive financing conditions
54 | SUSTAINABILITY

for vendors who have achieved a SAFE
A, B+, or B- rating. In 2016, 19 suppliers
from 11 countries joined the programme.
The programme received the Supply Chain

Financing Innovation of the Year Award,
awarded by the Supply Chain Finance
Community.

HE A LTH AND S AFET Y (10FOR2 0 TARG ET NO. 4)
TARGET DESCRIPTION

Zero
fatal
accidents at PUMA and at suppliers;
Injury rate below industry average.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable
Development Goal 3.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Expand building safety projects
to India and Pakistan
ACTION Ensure professional risk assessments are conducted regularly
KPIs
n Number of fatal accidents
n Average injury rate of core suppliers
n Percentage of core suppliers covered by
building safety assessments
n Percentage of core suppliers covered by
professional risk assessments
Similar to social and environmental aspects, for the fields of Health and Safety
the impact in our supply chain is larger
than for our own PUMA entities.
PUMA is actively promoting the health
and safety of our own workforce. Data on
training and injuries are tracked via our
HR management system. Further details

can be found in the People@PUMA section of this report.
2016 began with the release of a new and
updated handbook on health and safety
standards, the formulation of zero fatal
accidents targets for both PUMA and our
suppliers, as well as the agreement to
track injury rates from PUMA and its core
suppliers. Those numbers are part of our
target KPIs and will be tracked instead
of reporting on the number of health and
safety violations at suppliers found during
our compliance audits.
Sadly, our zero fatal accident target could
not be achieved in 2016 as a tragic accident occurred at one of our Vietnamese
suppliers in May, leading to the death of a
maintenance department worker. He had
tried to repair a broken roof unsecured
and fell on the concrete floor below. Despite immediate first aid measures and
transport to hospital his life could not be
saved. The employer provided all mandatory and additional compensation and
support to his family.
We took this tragic event as a starting
point to the “Zero fatal accidents project” and reviewed the risk assessments
conducted by our core suppliers globally. After receiving reassurance that pro-

fessional risk assessments had already
been conducted at all of our core suppliers, we reported on the fatal accident
and asked our suppliers to include maintenance work and other non-permanent
tasks into their risk assessments in the
future. We also re-enforced the need to
use personal protective equipment when
working at heights and integrated checks
on the availability of proper procedures
and equipment onsite into our routine audit visits.
Furthermore, we identified road accidents
as another potential source for fatal accidents and started to engage with other
brands in Cambodia in a working group
to improve road safety during employee
commuting.

SUSTAINABILITY | 55

T.5

2016 Injury Rates (per 100 Employees) from PUMA Core Suppliers per Country

Argentina

8.4

Indonesia

Bangladesh

2.6

Madagascar

Brazil

0.4

Malaysia

0

Cambodia

0.7

Mauritius

15.9

China

0.7

Mexico

0.6

Pakistan

0.2

Turkey

9.4

Vietnam

0.4

El Salvador
Georgia
India

14.7
9.2

In 2016, we gathered the data related to our
suppliers’ injury rates for the first time. We
recognise areas for future improvement, for
example regarding the considerable range
within the results. Our plan is to build further capacities together with the suppliers’
OHS teams on the collection, analysis and
use of such important KPIs. We expect to
have more robust data in the upcoming
years. We will focus on those countries
where no injuries or a very high number of
injuries have been reported.
One part of our Health and Safety target
addresses building safety. Even though
PUMA did not source from Rana Plaza,
where the tragic building collapse happened in 2013, we joined the Bangladesh
Accord when it was launched. In 2016, the
Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh continued working to prevent fires,
building collapses, or other accidents, with
56 | SUSTAINABILITY

1
2.8

0

reasonable health and safety measures.
PUMA factories were faster remediating
the findings (85%) than the Accord average
(75%). In particular the structural remediation progresses were faster (75%) than the
Accord average (52%).
We also looked into expanding our building safety assessments into Pakistan and
India. We identified a qualified service provider for those building safety assessments
and planned our first assessments in Pakistan, while assessments in India remain a
target for the year 2017.

ENV IRON M E N T
C LIM AT E C HA N GE ( 10 FO R 2 0 TA R GE T N O. 5 )
TARGET DESCRIPTION

Science-based CO2
reduction target to be developed (2016)
and implemented (2020).
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 13.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Extend
large-scale
climate
change projects in supply chain
ACTION Switch to LED lights and smart
air conditioning systems for own sites
KPIs
n Direct CO2 emissions from own entities
(Scope 1)
n Indirect CO2 emissions from own entities
(Scope 2)
n Indirect CO2 emissions from manufacturing and transport of goods (Scope 3)

During the United Nations Climate Change
Conference in Paris in 2015, PUMA committed to setting a science-based CO2
emission target. This means that we have
accepted our fair share in the enormous
work that is required to hold the increase
in the global average temperature to well
below 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
Since achieving such a science-based target is a long process, we have decided to
set an interim reduction target of 3% (in line
with the corresponding science-based target option) for direct CO2 emissions, indirect emissions from electricity and district
heating as well as indirect emissions from
manufacturing and transportation of goods
for 2016.
At the same time, we have worked on
setting the science-based target and met
with expert consultancies and civil society
organisations to better understand which
methodology to use. We plan to finalise our
Science-based emissions target in 2017.
During the target-setting process, we once
more realised that the CO2 footprint of our
SUSTAINABILITY | 57

T.6

CO2 Emissions Breakdown by Sources

CO2 emissions 1-7 (absolute figures)

2016

2015

2014

Scope 1 - Direct CO2 emissions fossile fuels [T]

6,854

7,296

7,306

37,300

35,591

34,969

196,896

192,305

193,271

CO2 emissions from business travel
transportation [T]

12,167

10,191

8,688

CO2 emissions from B2B transport of goods [T]

48,484

57,085

51,784

CO2 emissions from production in Tier 1 supply
chain [T]

120,023

118,708

125,558

Upstream activities subtotal [T]

180,673

185,984

186,030

CO2 emissions from courier services[T]

16,223

6,321

7,241

Downstream activities subtotal [T]

16,223

6,321

7,241

241,049

235,192

235,546

Scope 2 - Indirect CO2 emissions electricity & steam [T]
Scope 3 - Other indirect emissions [T]

Total Scope 1-3 [T]

1. Figures include PUMA-owned or operated offices, warehouses and stores. Outsourced warehouses
and franchised stores are excluded.
2. D
 ata includes extrapolations or estimations where no real data could be provided.
3. E
 xcludes on-site generated and consumed energy as well as energy produced on-site and sold to
the grid.
4. Includes own production sites in Argentina. All other production is outsourced to independent supplier
factories; some warehouse operations are outsourced to independent logistic providers; franchised
stores are excluded.
5. Store data is derived from exemplary stores in each country and extrapolated to cover all stores;
methodological changes over the last 3 years do influence results.
6. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2 accounting, with reference to the GHG protocol, but only reports CO2 emissions, not CO2 equivalent emissions.
7. PUMA uses own methodology for CO2 accounting, with reference to the GHG protocol, but only reports data from business travel, transportation of goods as well as from production of Tier 1 suppliers
under Scope 3 emissions.

58 | SUSTAINABILITY

own offices, stores and warehouses worldwide is only a small fraction of the emissions caused further down in the supply
chain, be it through transportation of goods
from Asia to our main markets in Europe
and the USA, from the final manufacturing
of goods mainly realised in large factories
in Asia, or from the extraction and processing of the materials used in our products.
Our 3% target was achieved in relative
terms for direct emissions (Scope 1) due to
a more efficient car fleet. Emissions from
electricity and district heating (Scope 2)
per turnover remained more or less stable, while emissions from transportation of
our goods decreased. This decrease can
be attributed to a lower emission factor for
sea freight. Most of our shipments are carried out by our partner Maersk Line, who
operates a fleet of ships with lower fuel
consumption than the industry average.
Emissions from our Tier 1 manufacturers

also decreased as a result of our SAVE capacity building project on resource efficiency as well as a general trend in the industry
to realize energy savings.
Therefore, we have continued to focus
on our large-scale suppliers in Asia and
support them in improving their energy
efficiency, starting to move from fossil fuels
to renewable energy. We have finished our
large-scale resource efficiency programme
SAVE (http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/supply-chain/resource-efficiency)
with encouraging results. According to
the final project report, the SAVE project
helped to decrease the CO2 emissions
from the 35 participating suppliers in total
by over 40,000 tons per year. This figure
equals approximately the total annual CO2
emissions of all PUMA offices, stores and
warehouses worldwide (Scope 1 and 2).

CO2 Emissions Relative to Turnover 2014-2016

F.6

T.7
2014

Scope 3
emissions

2015

CO2 Emissions Relative to Turnover

2016

2015

2014

Deviation
2016 to 2015

Scope 1 emissions (tons CO2
per million € turnover per year)

1.89

2.15

2.46

-12%

Scope 2 emissions (tons CO2
per million € turnover per year)

10.28

10.51

11.77

-2%

Scope 3 emissions (tons CO2
per million € turnover per year)

54.29

56.77

65.03

-4%

Total

66.46

69.43

79.26

-4%

Annual turnover PUMA (million €)

3,627

3,387

2,972

CO2 emissions
per Scope and year

2016
2014

Scope 2
emissions

2015
2016
2014

Scope 1
emissions

2015
2016
0

10

20

30

70
40
50
60
tons CO2 per million € turnover per year

Louis Chen

CEO, General Manager Kaoway Sports

“Working with the SAVE team on our solar
project in Cambodia was a great success
and they had a good team of people right
from the beginning till the end. The solar
project helps us not only to provide sufficient and stable power for production, but
also saving energy and money. Renewable
energy provides substantial benefits for our climate, our health,
and our economy. That’s why we will keep focusing on it for the
better future.”

In 2016, we set up our next big resource efficiency and renewable energy programme
in Vietnam, partnering with the International Finance Corporation, IFC. The programme will focus on ten PUMA core suppliers with large energy consumption and
CO2 footprint and contain detailed energy
efficiency assessments as well as feasibility studies for implementing renewable energy at each supplier.
In addition to our work within the supply
chain, we have stepped up our efforts
for our own entities and moved 50 stores
from conventional lighting to LED lighting.
Through this, we are saving approximately 20 percent of those stores’ energy consumption. With the further roll-out of the
new store concept, we expect to see those

savings positively impacting our Scope 2
emissions. We have also planned to install
state-of-the-art LED lighting concepts and
thermal insulation into the newly extended
Headquarter building in Herzogenaurach,
Germany. Once completed, the building
will provide several additional charging stations for electric cars, supporting our target
of further reducing the average emissions
from our PUMA car fleet by switching to
electric or hybrid cars where economically
reasonable.

SUSTAINABILITY | 59

C HEMI CA L S (10FOR20 TA RG ET NO. 6 )
TARGET DESCRIPTION Zero Discharge of
Hazardous Chemicals from our supply
chain by 2020.
Relates to Sustainable Development Goals
3, and 6.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Phase out the use of Perfluorinated Chemicals (PFCs)
ACTION Explore alternatives for Volatile
Organic Compounds (VOCs) in adhesives
and PU materials
KPIs
n Number and pass rate of RSL tests
n Percentage of styles without PFC
n VOC Index for shoes
PUMA is a founding member of the Zero
Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Foundation (ZDHC) and the Apparel and Footwear
International Restricted Substances List
Management Group (AFIRM).
As such, we have always believed that a
lasting positive impact in the field of chemicals management within the supply chain
can only be reached if we closely cooperate
with other brands and buyers, but also with
the chemical industry.
60 | SUSTAINABILITY

Last year, we discarded our own PUMA
Product Restricted Substances List in favour
of the industry RSL developed by the AFIRM
Group. At the same time, we stepped up our
efforts to implement the Manufacturing RSL
developed by ZDHC.
Furthermore, we have invited our partner
bluesign technologies to join all our supplier round table meetings on a global scale to
promote the bluesign bluefinder tool as a potential solution, while supporting suppliers in
using MRSL compliant chemicals.
To ensure that our Tier 2 and 3 factories
maintain a good chemical management system and adhere to our environmental standards, we regularly conduct environmental
audits at suppliers that do wet processing.
We could increase the number of audits from
12 in 2015 to 18 in 2016. Additionally, we
have covered 9 of our material suppliers by
the bluesign system, and 18 leather suppliers that are certified by the Leather Working
Group, which were therefore not additionally
audited by PUMA on environmental standards.
We have continued to track RSL compliance
of the materials used for PUMA production
and executed random tests on finished products level to ensure no harmful chemicals
were added during the production process.

Figure 7 shows that the failure rate of test
reports in the database is about 4% across
all divisions based on 3,028 RSL test results.
When failures were found in RSL tests, we
worked with our suppliers to identify the root
cause and to eliminate any contamination
before the material was approved for PUMA
production.
Furthermore, our material teams worked on
the elimination of Perfluorinated Chemicals
(PFCs) used in water repellent finishes in line

with our target to phase out the use of PFCs
completely by end of 2017.
Materials with a water repellent treatment
represent 9 percent of our total apparel material volume of 44,282,374 yards. We will
replace 88 percent of our water repellent
materials with PFC-free alternatives during
production in 2017. Some of these materials
are still under development to ensure stable
performance during bulk production. This
represents 27 percent of all PFC materials.

RSL Test Results Recorded in the PUMA RSL Database

F.7

2%

Apparel

98%

4%

Footwear

96%

Others 6%

94%

Accessories 6%

94%

Total

4%
0

96%
10

20
Failed Tests

30

40

50

60

Passed Tests

70

80

90

F.8

Percentage of Water
Repellent Apparel Materials
of Total Volume

Non-water repellent
materials
(91%)

F.9

Water repellent
materials
(9%)

Percentage of PFC-Free Apparel
Materials of Total Water Repellent
Material Volume

PFC-free materials
(61%)

Non-PFC-free
materials
(12%)

As of end 2016, we have not been able to
VOC Index of PUMA Footwear Production
F.10
develop PFC free alternatives for 12% of our
water repellent materials. We will continue to g/pair
use PFCs until we have found alternatives 70
66.7
that can fulfil our performance requirements
60
and our target to be PFC free.
56.2
For our Footwear and Accessories prod46.8
ucts we are equally working on the replace- 50
43.0 42.2
41.2 40.2
39.8
ment of PFC-based water repellent finishes
37.0
40
with trials and testing to achieve the best
33.1
30.7
28.7
possible performance which can meet 30
24.1
PUMA’s and our customers’ requirements.
21.2
Target 2015 (25g/pair)
Another chemical that came into focus last 20
year was dimethylformamide (DMFa). DMFa
Target 2020 (15g/pair)
is widely used in the production of polyure- 10
thane materials and coatings, thus it can be
0
found within the PUMA supply chain.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
We have started to look into alternative PU
VOC
per pair
solutions and aim
forConsumption
a first pilot project
withof Shoes
Actual value (g/pair of shoes)
water-based PU in 2017. We have also added the increase of DMFa-free PU materials
used in our production range as one of our
material targets.
We reconfirmed our long term strategic target of reducing the amount of VOCs used in
footwear production after hitting below 25g
per pair VOC consumption for the first time
in 2015. In 2016, we could lower the value
to 21.2g per pair. For the next five years, we
plan to further reduce the VOC consumption
per pair of shoes significantly, setting our
new target to 15g per pair.

PFC-free materials
under development
(27%)
SUSTAINABILITY | 61

WAT E R A ND AIR (10FOR20 TARG ET N0. 7 )

TARGET DESCRIPTION

Industry good practice for water consumption and effluent
treatment is met by 90 percent of PUMA
core suppliers with wet processing facilities. Industry good practice for air emissions is met by 90 percent of PUMA core
suppliers.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 6.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION

Ensure regular wastewater testing at releACTION vant suppliers
Support the development and adaption of
an industry wastewater standard
KPIs
n Percentage of wet processing suppliers
covered (by production volume)
n Percentage of suppliers meeting good
practice standards for water (good practice for air not defined yet)

62 | SUSTAINABILITY

The textile industry has been highlighted as
a major source of water pollution by several
NGO reports in recent years.
At PUMA, we have identified our core suppliers with wet processing facilities (typically
dyeing mills and tanneries or vertically integrated suppliers) and asked those suppliers
to conduct wastewater tests at least annually. The results of these tests are shared
with the public on the web-based platform
of the Chinese NGO Institute of Public and
Environmental Affairs (IPE).
While in 2015 wastewater tests were done
at 33 factories, in 2016 we could increase
this number to 44 factories with a total of
61 sampling points. Sampling points include
incoming water, wastewater before and after
treatment as well as sludge samples. The
factories that participated in our water testing programme are located in Bangladesh,
China, Indonesia, Thailand, Turkey, Taiwan
and Vietnam.
The tested parameters cover conventional parameters like BOD or COD, as well
as substance groups that are listed in the
ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL).

The test results show that four out of 14 substance groups could not be detected at any
supplier. The other 10 substance groups
could partly still be detected at different
sampling points. Factory compliance rates
for detected substances varied between 84
to 98 percent.
The results of the wastewater tests are frequently updated on our website (http://about.
puma.com/en/sustainability/environment/
zero-discharge-of-hazardous-chemicals).
Besides our ongoing individual supplier water testing programme, we felt a strong need
for industry alignment on a unified wastewater quality guideline. Such a document
would not only harmonise the expectation
from brands towards suppliers and avoid
multiple testing, but also enable comparison
of data.
Therefore, PUMA took a leading role within
the ZDHC and proposed to setup a wastewater standard for the apparel and footwear
industry in 2015. After a year of extensive
research and stakeholder consultation
within the newly founded wastewater quality
focus area, the ZDHC wastewater guideline
was published in November 2016 (http://

w w w.roadmaptozero.com/programme/
wastewater-quality/). PUMA has adopted
the guideline and participates in the respective pilot testing by ZDHC.
To reduce the air emissions on factory level,
for 2017 we plan to take a closer look into
the development of a guideline on air emissions, preferably also within a coordinated
industry approach. For many years we have
been working on the reduction of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the manufacturing process and in our end products, as
explained in the chemicals target section.

M ATE R I ALS (10FOR20 TARG ET NO. 8 )
TARGET DESCRIPTION

Use sustainable material alternatives for PUMA’s key materials:
cotton, polyester, leather, polyurethane and
cardboard.
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 12, and 15.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION

Increase bluesign® certified polyester usage to 50 percent by 2020
ACTION Increase Better Cotton Initiative
fibre volume to 50 percent by 2020
KPIs
n Percentage figures for each material

Lifecycle studies as well as the Environmental Profit & Loss Account show that the
majority of the environmental impact for
our products occurs during the raw material creation and processing phases. While
the data on social impact is less complete,
exposure of hotspots such as child labour
in cotton farming or forced labour practices
during cattle ranching indicate that the raw
material stage has also a very significant
social impact.

We have therefore set targets for certifications of our main materials, namely cotton, polyester, leather as well as paper and
cardboard between 50 and 90 percent of
the production volume as shown in table 8.
By doing so, we have focused on leading
industry standards.
In addition to these materials, we are also
targeting the phase-out of hazardous solvents in the production of polyurethane.
However, for this material we need to conduct further research before a percentage
target can be set.
Table 8 shows a strong increase in the
sourcing of BCI cotton and bluesign® certified polyester for apparel, in line with our
interim targets. Accessories also hit the
interim target of 20 percent bluesign® certified polyester with a slight increase. For
footwear, our LWG medal-rated leather
goal for 2020 was over-achieved in 2016
for the second year. We are also confident
to reach our paper and cardboard goal of
90 percent recycled and/or certified material by 2020 despite a 7 percent decrease
from 2015. Where we still struggle is on the
traceability of leather as well as the usage of
water-based polyurethane. We have therefore decided to focus on those two material
targets with dedicated projects for 2017.

T.8

Progress Against Material Targets

% of total
volume 2015

% of total
volume 2016

Target
2016

Target
2020

0

19

20

50

Bluesign certified
Polyester

15

24

20

50

Accessoires Bluesign® certified
Polyester

20

21

20

50

LWG medal-rated leather
suppliers

99

94

90

90

Traceability LWG A&B
leather rating

20

18

20

tbd

FSC® certified and/
or recycled paper and
cardboard

85

78

80

90

Division

Material Targets

Apparel

Cotton sourced
as BCI
®

Footwear

SUSTAINABILITY | 63

MD Zahid Ullah

Head of Sustainability, DBL Group

“PUMA is not only a strategic partner, but
also a knowledge partner for DBL. Increasing
transparency and setting up social and environmental KPIs have been the most important
learnings and empowerment which DBL has
received from PUMA. Through participation
in the SAVE programme, we were able to save
energy and water, and reduce the amount of waste in one of our
garment manufacturing units. We are already replicating the best
practices to other business units to achieve sustainability in our
internal supply chain.”

TARGET DESCRIPTION

Continue to report
on the EP&L every year under the lead of
Kering.
Relates to United Nations Sustainability
Development Goals 7, and 12.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION

Regularly publish updated PUMA
EP&L data
ACTION Introduce industry aligned product
sustainability tools for design and development

64 | SUSTAINABILITY

KPIs
n Annual EP&L values for PUMA
After PUMA piloted the EP&L in 2011, our
majority shareholder Kering has taken over
the EP&L, further developed the methodology and expanded the EP&L to the entire Kering Group. Kering has regularly
reported on the EP&L results, published
the EP&L methodology as an open-source
tool in 2016, and even developed an EP&L
mobile phone app. For more information on
Kering’s EP&L activities and the group’s results, please visit (http://www.kering.com/
en/sustainability/epl).

ENV IRO NM E N TA L PR O F I T A N D LO S S ( E P& L )
(1 0 FOR2 0 TA R GE T N O. 9 )
As announced last year we have been shifting our focus and target from the corporate
level more towards the production level.
Based on our 10FOR20 Targets we will
now report again on our PUMA specific
progress towards gradually lowering the
EP&L value by using more sustainable raw
materials, promoting resource efficiency
practices in our supply chain and, last but
not least, integrating sustainability considerations back into product design and development processes.
For an overview of the environmental KPIs of
PUMA entities and its core Tier 1 suppliers,
please see table 9.

Together with data on our material consumption and manufacturing locations, these figures form the basis of the PUMA EP&L.

T.9

PUMA‘s Environmental Impact (E-KPI)
2016

Total

2015

Consumption/
million € Deviation 2016
Turnover
to 2015 in %

Total

2014

Consumption/
million € Deviation 2015
Turnover
to 2014 in %

Total

Consumption/
million €
Turnover

Energy consumption [MWh]

81,508

22.5

-7

81,620

24.1

-12

80,354

27

Electricity consumption [MWh]

63,339

17.47

-1

59,888

17.72

-7

56,574

19.04

Electricity consumption from renewable tariff [MWh]

12,049

3.32

-1

11,360

3.36

-10

10,997

3.7

19%

–

–

19%

–

–

19.4%

–

180,041

49.7

11

149,709

44.3

-24

163,680

55.1

Waste [T]

5,302

1.46

-1

5,007

1.48

2

4,310

1.45

Recycled waste [T]

3,275

0.9

3

2,949

0.87

-6

2,739

0.92

Percentage recycled waste

61.8%

–

–

58.9%

–

–

63.5%

–

Waste from PUMA production [T] **

12,257

Percentage renewable electricity consumption
Energy consumption from PUMA production [MWh] **

3,380

-0.1

11,433

3,383

-24

12,491

4,203

Paper and cardboard consumption [T] *

3,337

0.92

-12

3,465

1.03

-13

3,446

1.16

Certified or recycled paper and cardboard consumption [T]

2,512

0.69

-7

2,498

0.74

1

2,172

0.73

Percentage certified or recycled paper consumption

75.3%

–

–

72.1%

–

–

63%

–

Paper and cardboard consumption from PUMA production [T] **

15,269

4.21

5

13,357

4

–

–

–

107,025

29.6

-4

104,221

30.8

-9

99,712

33.6

1,266,324

349

-50

1,774,761

525

30

1,098,888

370

Water consumption [m³]
Water consumption from PUMA suppliers [m³] **
* Including paper bags, direct and indirect paper consumption and cardboard

** Covers Tier 1 suppliers

SUSTAINABILITY | 65

Looking into the EP&L data of our Tier 1
suppliers (where products are manufac-

F.11

tured), the energy, water, waste and CO2
impact of our Accessories products could

year. Regarding the impact of our Footwear
products, the amount of energy and water

E-KPI Data for Tier 1 Suppliers of Accessories Products*

Energy: 0.34kWh/piece
Water: 6.12l/piece
Waste: 20g/piece
CO2: 0.30kg/piece

2016

2015

F.12

be decreased. For the newly added data for
footballs no comparison can be made this

*

2016
compared
to 2015

Energy: 0.38kWh/piece
Water: 6.20l/piece
Waste: 25g/piece
CO 2: 0.39kg/piece

Energy: -11%
Water: -1%

2014

E-KPI Data for Tier 1 Suppliers of Footwear Products*

Energy: 1.59kWh/pair
Water: 18.37l/pair
Waste: 105g/pair
CO2: 1.12kg/pair

2015

2016
2016
compared
to 2015

Energy: +4%
Water: +0.4%

Waste: -7%
CO2: -17%

*Figure contains rounded values
66 | SUSTAINABILITY

2014

Waste: -20%
CO2: -23%

Energy: 0.40kWh/piece
Water: 6.67l/piece
Waste: 28g/piece
CO 2: 0.42kg/piece

F.13

*Factories manufacturing footballs were included in the data collection for the first time in 2016 and due to different manufacturing
processes cannot be compared with previous figures from bags
manufacturers.

E-KPI Data for Tier 1 Suppliers of Apparel Products *

Energy: 0.69kWh/piece
Water: 8.18l/piece
Waste: 50g/piece
CO2: 0.39kg/piece

Energy: 1.53kWh/pair
Water: 18.30l/pair
Waste: 114g/pair
CO 2: 1.35kg/pair

Energy: 1.55kWh/pair
Water: 23.50l/pair
Waste: 119g/pair
CO 2: 1.41kg/pair

2016

Energy: 0.25kWh/piece
Water: 3.25l/piece
Waste: 36g/piece
CO 2: 0.19kg/piece

2016

Energy: 0.80kWh/piece
Water: 7.60l/piece
Waste: 61g/piece
CO 2: 0.42kg/piece

2015

Energy: 0.62kWh/piece
Water: 6.83l/piece
Waste: 51g/piece
CO 2: 0.36kg/piece

2016
compared
to 2015

2014

Energy: +11%
Water: +20%
Waste: -1%
CO2: +8%

per pair has increased, while we can see a
reduction in the CO2 emissions and waste.
The cause for this significant reduction is
partly referable to a lower CO2 emission factor used for 2016 calculations.
For Apparel the amount of waste per piece
was stable compared to last year, while we
can see an increase in water and energy
consumption and CO2 emissions. The reason for the increase is partly based on the
higher number of suppliers that we could include this year that had never been involved
in environmental data collection or alike pro-

jects before.
Since the EP&L study showed us that a major environmental impact can be found at
fabric and component supplier level, we have
started to include those suppliers in our environmental data collection.
To be able to understand the impact of different types of materials, we have split the data
into factories producing leather and textiles.
The results are shown in tables 10 and 11.

E-KPI Data for Material Suppliers Manufacturing Textiles

T.10

Value Min.

Value Max.

No. of Suppliers

1,029

25,957

13

Water/ton [m ]

56

238

13

Waste/ton [kg]

12

253

13

2

13

13

Energy/ton [kWh]
3

CO2/ton [T]

E-KPI Data for Material Suppliers Manufacturing Leather

T.11

Value Min.

Value Max.

No. of Suppliers

2

8

6

Water/m2 [L]

29

114

6

Waste/m2 [kg]

0.2

2

6

1

263

6

Energy/m2 [kWh]

CO2/m [kg]
2

SUSTAINABILITY | 67

G OV E R NANCE (10FOR20 TARG ET NO. 1 0)

TARGET DESCRIPTION

Maintain and run a
state-of-the-art Compliance Management
System (including anti-corruption measures).
Relates to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 8 and 16.

Examples from the 10FOR20
Action Plan:
ACTION Increase participation rate in
Kering’s ethics training
ACTION Introduce an anti-corruption
clause in the PUMA Code of Conduct
KPIs
n Percentage of PUMA employees trained
on anti-corruption
PUMA is a sports company operating on a
global scale. We are aware of the financial risks and potential reputation damages
which can occur, if employees or business
partners do not keep to laws and guidelines.
68 | SUSTAINABILITY

Non-compliance is an issue that can arise in every function of business and in
every country in which we do business.
As a particular problem, PUMA has identified corruption law and cartel law violations.
The risk level can vary from high to low,
depending on business function and country. Therefore, PUMA has joined the Kering Compliance Programme, established
in 2015, in order to prevent corruption and
cartel law violations.
As a member of the UN Global Compact,
PUMA has committed itself to its ten principles of the contract. Especially Principle
10, stating that companies must take action
to prevent all shades of corruption, blackmail and bribing, is of elevated importance.
Fighting corruption is not only the most important point in our Compliance Programme, but also a reoccurring topic in talks
with NGOs - for example at our annual
“Talks at Banz”.
To stress PUMA’s commitment to fighting
corruption even further, we integrated the
topic into the updated version of our Code

of Conduct in June 2016. The Code of Conduct is a substantial pillar of our company
and an essential part of our business relationships with suppliers.
At PUMA, we mostly discuss topics related
to our Compliance Management System
on the PUMA SE company level within
the framework of our “Risk & Compliance
Committee”. This Committee consists of
members of the senior management - for
example the PUMA SE Managing Directors. All PUMA initiatives that are related
to compliance are presented to main governance bodies (Managing Directors of
PUMA SE, Audit Committee, and Administrative Board) for approval.

Next to our complaint system for employees
in the supply chain, PUMA also maintains a
world-wide hotline for external issues.
The most important points on our company
ethics, compliance and expected behaviour agenda are summarised in the PUMA
Code of Ethics. PUMA CEO Bjørn Gulden
has communicated the current version of
the Code of Ethics which, amongst other
things, covers rules about hospitality and
gifts to employees (including Managing
Directors of our subsidiaries and at PUMA
SE) on a global level. The document can
be found on our company intranet and also
on the PUMA website: http://about.puma.
com/en/sustainability/standards/coe.

The PUMA Code of Ethics is updated on a
regular basis.
Together with our majority shareholder,
Kering, we have added a company-wide
Learning Programme to the Code of Ethics
in order to sensitise our employees for
company ethics and corruption. In 2016,
the following key aspects were defined:
anti-corruption, behaviour at work, secrecy
of business information, and environmental
protection.

As a sponsor of the campaign, PUMA’s
CEO has advertised the E-Learning Programme 2016 to all PUMA employees.
Globally, every employee is encouraged to
participate in the E-Learning Programme.
The attendee rate for 2016 was 97 percent.
The aim for the future is to continue to reach this high level of participation. Our medium-term goal is to sensitise our supplier
companies and their employees.

S UMMA RY
Corporate Sustainability is in the middle of
a revolution; we are seeing more and more
convergence as brands agree on industry-wide requirements, and cooperate to
push environmental and social standards
deeper into the supply chain via, for example, the Higg Index. Secondly, cloud-based
technology coupled with governmental legislation concerning the public’s right to information is putting live information on the
screens of “green consumers” all over the
world. We are therefore moving away from
an “audit and report” compliance model to a
“performance management” model based

on industry agreed standards. At PUMA we
have taken the opportunity to launch our
“10FOR20” Targets in order to embrace this
development. We have clearly defined objectives based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals with an action
plan for each one of them and recognised
international partners, who could help us to
achieve them.
On an operational level, we have strived to
focus our efforts wherever possible to create maximum positive impact on the community and the environment in which we operate. Our internal teams work on capacity

building programmes with our core Tier 1
and Tier 2 suppliers on topics like Women’s
empowerment, the legal integration of Syrian refugees into our supply chain in Turkey,
renewable energy projects, waste elimination, and water and wastewater management. In addition, we have taken concrete
steps to ensure that viable alternatives to
high environmental impact materials are
gradually introduced into our products;
such as cotton sourced as Better Cotton,
bluesign® certified Polyester, tanneries validated by the “Leather Working Group”, and
FSC® compliant paper sources.

Sustainability is firmly at the heart of
PUMA‘s business thanks to the continued
enthusiasm and hard work of our employees and key stakeholders.

SUSTAINABILITY | 69

PIA MADISON

–

OUR EMPLOYEES

–

PEOPLE@PUMA
71

P EOP LE@PUMA
Positioning PUMA as an attractive employer
is essential to our success. We need talented
employees with the right attitude and skills
to successfully manage the challenges of a
dynamic market environment. Our ambition is
to attract, hire and retain talents and professionals who help us push PUMA forward.

PEOPLE
@

PUMA

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 71

–

LISA HUBER

–

BE DRIVEN
BE VIBRANT
BE TOGETHER
BE YOU
72 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

–

We believe that we offer a very special
atmosphere to work in, one that provides
inspiring roles and opportunities to develop exciting products. To put our distinct
culture in words, we analysed our PUMA
culture in depth, talking to employees and
conducting surveys and workshops. Four
simple values have been identified to guide
our daily work. They encourage us to BE
DRIVEN, BE VIBRANT, BE TOGETHER,
AND BE YOU so that our individual talents
and experiences can be leveraged. Under
the label “Speed & Spirit” this defines our
new Employee Value Proposition which is
linked to our Brand Proposition of “Forever
Faster”. Our founder Rudolf Dassler used
to say, we all have the ability to go fast,
but speed is nothing if we leave our PUMA
Spirit behind. With “Speed & Spirit” we are
able to communicate our working culture,
enhancing engagement of our employees
while attracting talents from outside.

APPRENTICES 2016

–

Growing Talent
Our goal is to ensure that we always have
suitable talents enthusiastic about our
brand. We are constantly looking for young
talents we can develop and successfully
prepare for the challenges the international
work environment at PUMA offers them.
We offer a multitude of options, especially
to young graduates, to give them a headstart in their early careers. In 2016, like in
the preceding year, 23 dual-programme
students and apprentices joined the PUMA
headquarters in Herzogenaurach. By the
end of 2016, the number of apprentices
and dual-programme students at PUMA
majoring in different fields of study such as
international business or warehouse logistics increased to 64. Through classes they
attend at vocational schools or in college,
they gain knowledge they could apply in
the first steps of their career at PUMA.

To reach out to talents as early as possible
in their careers, we have strengthened our
cooperation programmes with universities
in Germany and internationally. We initiated a series of projects in fashion and business administration, including workshops
and visits to our headquarters in Herzogenaurach, giving students insight into a
global sports company and raising awareness of PUMA as an employer of choice.
Internships are another way for getting to
know PUMA. Student interns are given an
opportunity to gain up to six months of work
experience. Internships allow us to foster
young talents and identify the next generation of employees, that will contribute to
PUMA’s future success.

Talent Management
Talent Management at PUMA reached
the next level in 2016. Based on our inte-

grated global talent
management system, People@PUMA
and its different modules (performance
management, skills & competency management, career & succession planning,
training & development, compensation &
benefits), we conducted systematic talent
conferences, evaluating the entire PUMA
workforce. This was done worldwide with
managers at all levels, up to board conferences at the managing director level.
We consider our managers to be the main
drivers in discovering and fostering talent.
Therefore, they not only do the annual
assessment of each employee’s performance and target achievement, but also
share their perception of an employee’s
career and development potential. We constantly evaluate talent, taking into account
such aspects as individual performance,
potential, ambition, development direction
and mobility. This analysis of employee

–

profiles at PUMA allows us to prepare individual development plans while providing
an overview of talents across all functions.
And, we can identify internal candidates for
key positions at an early stage.
People@PUMA is a global talent pool
that facilitates internal mobility of PUMA
employees worldwide. Data on talents who
are willing and capable of moving to the

PETER DANGL

next step internationally is available too.
Talent data allows PUMA to match internal talents with vacancies to find potential
successors that have the necessary skills.
This matching process provides attractive
career and development opportunities
to our employees and ensures professional talent management and succession
planning.
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 73

–

74 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

NEIL SPEAIGHT
–

At PUMA, learning is part of our culture.
We believe that no consistent success and
sustainable growth is possible unless you
work with highly qualified and motivated
professionals who believe in what they do
and are confident of their own strengths
and abilities. Employees who are willing
to go for continuing development, professionally and personally, can grow beyond
their limits and contribute to our corporate
achievements. This in mind, PUMA offers
a wide range of training courses and workshops, both on site and online, which are
either set or tailored to individual needs.
In 2016, 9,708 employees worldwide participated in training courses and workshops
over a total of 160,904 hours. This is a slight
increase compared to the preceding year.
Our employee development programme
further includes a learning platform, PUMA
LEARNING PLAZA. Our learning platform
gives access to a host of online content
available to all employees and managers. In
addition to internal PUMA content, employ-

–

Training and Development

ees can access hand-picked business
books abstracts and TED videos. Our
employees can also use the interactive
learning platform lynda.com that carries
more than 3,700 video tutorials as selfstudy courses.
To ensure a consistent management culture throughout PUMA, we offer leadership
training to all levels of management. “From

Employee to Manager” is designed for
employees who are stepping into first management roles with no prior experience in
leading teams. Training topics include handling the new role, positioning within a team
and managing own teams, to name a few.
Our modular International Leadership Program (ILP) is the key element in establishing a consistent leadership approach on

a global basis and supports managers in
their leadership skills and day-to-day decisions. The ILP is conducted globally with
groups of participants in the EMEA, APAC,
LATAM and North America regions. In
2016, the ILP², a consistent continuation
of the previous programme featuring new
inspirational content, was developed. The
new version will be lauched in 2017.
Speed up² was another notable launch,
made in November 2016. As part of this
new programme, a pool of top talents will
be intensively prepared for their next career
steps through interdisciplinary projects and
tasks, targeted training courses, mentoring, coaching and job rotation. Enhancing
visibility towards top management, building
cross-functional collaborations as well as
building a strong network among all participants are crucial parts of this programme. We select participants via a
scouting process performed by a panel
of business leaders and HR representatives as part of our efforts to systematically assess the best-matching top talents
worldwide.

DIVE
Diversity
Workplace diversity means creating an
inclusive environment that accepts everyone’s individuality, embraces peoples’
strengths and provides opportunities for all
employees to achieve their full potential.
We believe that a diverse workforce from a
multitude of nationalities, backgrounds and
experiences is the key to creating effective and competitive teams. Based on this
belief, we committed to the PUMA Code of
Ethics and to our Diversity Charter over ten
years ago. We implemented our Diversity
Charter to ensure a fair working environment at PUMA for all employees to have
equal opportunities whatever their gender,
nationality, ethnic origin, religion, disability,
age, sexual orientation or identity.
Our commitment to foster diversity and the
courage to think and to be different has
shaped the unique culture at PUMA and the
international character of our workforce,
which comprises people from 59 nations,
in our German headquarters in Herzogenaurach alone. There we offer a one-day
cultural awareness training course to all
new employees to ensure they gain an
understanding of cultural differences and

similarities, and they can benefit from it as
it makes their daily work more effective.
The gender ratio at PUMA is very balanced
and stable, with 47 percent female employees and 53 percent male employees. In
2016, women accounted for 38 percent
across all management levels.
Even though this number has increased
year on year, we continue our worldwide
efforts to increase the percentage of women in management positions, especially
at upper management levels. To achieve
this goal, PUMA has committed to reaching a quota of 20 percent and 30 percent
women respectively for the two top management levels reporting to the managing
directors. The target date for achieving
these quotas is 30 June 2017. We aim to
continuously support the development of
women in management positions and to
set a good example as a diverse company offering equal opportunities to men and
women. As part of our efforts, we offer special training courses for women in management positions, giving them opportunity to
access inspiring networks that encourage
them to take on leading roles within the
company.

RSITY
–

T.1

HEIKE ZENKEL

Percentage of women in managerial positions

Regions

2016

2015

2014

2013

APAC

43%

42%

38%

34%

LATAM

34%

33%

29%

30%

North America

45%

42%

40%

38%

Europe

30%

30%

29%

34%

EEMEA

40%

39%

39%

34%

Gesamt

38%

37%

35%

34%

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 75

-

APAC
(1,891 hours)

Throughout 2016, PUMA continued its support of Charity Cat e.V., the charity founded
by PUMA employees in 2004. The organisation again benefited from product and
financial donations from PUMA SE or its
employees.
In line with its motto “be part of something
good”, Charity Cat members organised
fundraising events to support regional and
global projects, as well as emergency relief.
Following Hurricane Matthew on Haiti, an
orphanage run by a long-term partner project took in an additional 80 people that had
lost their homes. To allow the orphanage
to provide enough food, water and shelter,
Charity Cat raised 1,000 euros and tripled
it to 3,000 euros for donation to the project
FONMEH e.V. “Hand in Hand for Haitian
Children”.
Combining charity with PUMA’s focus on
sports, Charity Cat was represented with
the second-largest team at the cancer run
“Lauf gegen Krebs” in nearby Erlangen.
The run benefitted the Erlangen University Hospital’s cancer ward. The hospital
became the beneficiary of another fundraiser later in the year: members of Charity
Cat organised an event and a Christmas
pub quiz to purchase sports equipment for
the children’s ward.

76 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

Europe
(1,624 hours)
F.2

Participation in local
community projects

North America
(1,950 hours)
EEMEA
(1,315 hours)

–

In October 2016, we launched “CatImpact”
– our new PUMA Community Engagement programme, for all our employees
worldwide. Under the slogan “Cool stuff
that matters”, we are facilitating workforce
involvement in community initiatives. Our
key focus is on projects in interest areas
such as sports & health, education, equality & non-discrimination and protection of
the environment as they are linked to our
corporate culture and to our willingness to
embrace respect for human rights throughout our operations. More specifically,
employees can now find contact persons
and projects on our internal online platform
and engage in local projects initiated and
led by our subsidiaries. In 2016, PUMA
employees devoted over 6,827 hours to
community services. Building meaningful
long-term partnerships which have a positive and sustainable impact is our ultimate
goal.
At PUMA North America for example, more
than 250 employees again supported the
“Boys and Girls Club” in 2016, bringing disadvantaged kids together on the playing
field.

LATAM
(47 hours)

ALDANA OUDRY

Charity Cat

–

Community Engagement

Works Council
In 2016, the European Works Council
of PUMA SE represented employees in
8 countries. Six of its 12 members are
women. The chairperson is German,
and the other members of the Executive
Committee are from Austria and Italy.
The German Works Council of PUMA SE
has 15 members, 10 men and 5 women.
The chairperson and the vice chairperson
both are German nationals.
A designated employee represents the
interests of employees with disabilities.

THOMAS JOSNIK

–

The group also continued its support of
other local and worldwide NGOs, such
as the children and young people’s home
Bolle in Berlin, Sozialtreff Erlangen, refugee projects by Doctors without Borders,
or “von Herz zu Herz” on the Philippines.
Various refugee organisations, food stores
and women’s refuges in the region received
product donations.
You can read more about the project portfolio of Charity Cat e.V., which now also
collaborates with PUMA SE’s employee
engagement programme, at the website
www.charity-cat.de.

Isabel Estevez

MOMENTUM

–

Manager Employer Branding & Digital Media PUMA,
Herzogenaurach, Germany

“My Momentum 2016 is my start at PUMA - as a newcomer
I already feel like a part of the PUMA family. PUMA is a
‘Great Place to Work’, and this is not just a slogan, you can
really feel it. I’m so happy about the opportunities PUMA
offers to its employees, the working environment, the cooperation among us colleagues and what we have accomplished working together as a team.”

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 77

78 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

MOMENTUM

Business Partner Human Resources,
PUMA International, Boston, USA

“My moment of success in 2016 stemmed
from integrating employees from different
PUMA locations like Herzogenaurach, Los
Angeles and Chile into our teams in Boston.
Seeing everyone grow and thrive in their new
environment has been exciting and I look forward to seeing what else they have in store!”

CLELIA LOBBA

–

Occupational Health and Safety

–

9498
4684
2506

Claire Kurtz

The main goal of our occupational health
and safety programmes is to consistently promote a healthy and safe work environment by addressing the many different
aspects that health and safety at the workplace may involve.
Throughout the world, we conduct safetyrelated training courses to prepare employees for potential emergencies. All in all,
we provided 9,498 hours of safety training
in 2016. 4,684 employees underwent fire
evacuation training and 2,506 employees
did a first aid training.
We have a Health and Safety Committee

in our global headquarters in Herzogenaurach, which comprises members of the
Works Council, representatives of HR and
in-house service departments, our company physician and a health & safety engineer.
The low absenteeism rate due to sickness,
which was 1.83 percent in 2016, reflects our
employees’ health and motivation. Worldwide, 98 accidents that involved a work
stoppage were recorded. This represents a
decline compared to the previous year and
is a good indicator of a downward trend.
According to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) this means
an injury rate of 0.84.

–
LAURA ASMAH
–

F.2

Number of accidents at work
involving a work stoppage

2013 (106 accidents)

2014 (93 accidents)

2015 (119 accidents)

2016 (98 accidents)

0

20

40

60

Compensation and Benefits
Attracting, retaining and rewarding the best
talents is essential for us. Therefore, we
provide a global set of compensation and
benefit programmes that attract and retain
talented employees. Many of our subsidiaries have collective bargaining agreements
that allow salaries above the industry average and extended annual leave. PUMA
also offers a variety of benefit plans such as
defined contribution and deferred compensation retirement plans. Regular compen-

80

100

120

sation and benefit reviews ensure PUMA’s
competitiveness on the market, aligned
with our corporate goals.
As we think that strong performance needs
to be rewarded, we seek to create compensation programmes in line with individual or
operational results or both. We offer shortterm and long-term incentives or bonus
plans to employees of a certain management level. Short-term incentive plan payouts are linked to business performance
and sustainability targets.

Social Networks & Employer
Awards and Rankings
PUMA’s image as an attractive employer
is reflected in the number of prestigious
awards we garnered in 2016, in Germany and internationally. We are especially
proud of the “Great Place to Work” bench-

mark study seal, which we were awarded
the first time we participated in Germany. In
addition, we stepped up the ranks in many
employer rankings. This marks our intensified employer branding activities that are
making us more and more attractive to global
talents. Our brand is not only active in social
networks such as LinkedIn, Facebook, Xing
COMPANY OVERVIEW | 79

Gulya Bakeberg

80 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

er branding and, consequently, attracting the
best talents. With our enhanced visibility as
employer brand, we are able to broaden our
pool of potential talents.
Our presence on these platforms has fostered the one-on-one connections we have
achieved with our target groups by communicating job postings, general facts and figures, trends and special employee events.
As a result, our followers identify PUMA not
only as a sports company, but also as an
attractive employer.

MAX MOLKENTHIN

and Twitter, but it is also found on employer review sites like Glassdoor and Kununu.
These platforms are important sources of
direct feedback from candidates and current
and former employees. In 2016, average ratings improved once more. For example Bjørn
Gulden reached an overall CEO approval
rate of 96 percent. The number of followers
of our “PUMA Group” channels continuously
grew in 2016.
Social networks and employer review platforms are very essential channels for employ-

–

“There were a lot of memorable and
fantastic days for me in 2016.
I definitely would like to outline my
exposure to PUMA’s European Retail
Business and the development of a
consistent incentive programme across
Retail EUROPE.”

–

MOMENTUM

Senior HR Business Partner Europe, Herzogenaurach, Germany

Wellbeing
We want to make our company an even
more attractive place to work. Therefore,
all of our Wellbeing@PUMA initiatives
have one thing in common: offering a
range of services and benefits that make
PUMA employees feel good and healthy.
We believe that employees are more motivated and productive at work if they feel

well – both mentally and physically – and
keep a healthy work-life balance. Originating in our headquarters in Herzogenaurach, the Wellbeing@PUMA concept has
been embraced by various PUMA subsidiaries around the world and adapted to local
needs and regulations.
Our wellbeing approach merges four
aspects: Athlete, Flex, Social and Finance.
The German “audit beruf & familie” (job &

family) certificate was awarded last year,
after a successful audit of our headquarters. This shows that we already offer a
wide range of programmes to support our
employees’ work-life balance, and we will
further extend these initiatives to facilitate
the integration of both their private and professional lives.
In line with our roots in sports, we offer
a variety of sporting events and activi-

ties throughout the year, as well as regular internal sports courses using our own
sports facilities. For employees in our
headquarters, 23 events and 17 weekly
sports courses were offered in 2016, with
a total of 1,730 registrations, which means
an increase of over 12 percent compared
to 2015. Similar initiatives and courses are
being adapted worldwide.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 81

-

Our goal is to offer state-of-the-art workplaces. Therefore, we not only began construction for our headquarter expansion
in Herzogenaurach, but also conducted a
workshop to specify our requirements. We
clustered our employees according to the
different nature of their work and defined
the resulting workplace demands. Designated areas for individual work and for
socialising were found to be indispensable
in open-plan space to allow focus on the
one hand and teamwork on the other. To
address these results, a new area concept
capturing the PUMA DNA was being developed. Rather than using the same individual workplace every day, our employees
may choose from a host of different areas
and office features depending on the type
of work they have to do. We chose one
department to test a new office design to
see how the new workplace set-up would
influence work behaviour, efficiency and
day-to-day office life. The evaluation of
these results will influence the final concept for the future workplaces in our new
building.

-

We want our employees to enjoy an attractive and inviting working environment as
we believe this supports a good working
atmosphere and enhances commitment
and loyalty. Our goal is to minimise the
number of employee-initiated exits and to
keep the percentage of employees in permanent employment above 80 percent.
Last year, 86 percent of our employees
worldwide had a permanent contract and
the employment of over 30 percent of our
employees was covered by a collective
bargaining agreement. The turnover rate
is strongly dependent on the share of the
retail business in the respective markets
and the region. In total, the turnover rate
was 25 percent, which is 3 percent lower
than last year. In 2016 the workforce had a
relatively low average age of 33 years. The
different flexible working modules available
at PUMA allows our employees to arrange
for working conditions that suit their individual needs. This ultimately leads to a more
productive and committed workforce and
is also reflected in the rate of employees
working part-time, which was 24 percent at
the end of 2016.

Future Workplace

ASHA HARPER

Working Conditions and Flexible
Working Modules

82 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT
To PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach
We have been engaged to perform a limited review of the materiality analysis, management approaches and quantitative and
qualitative information in the sustainability part of the annual report (hereinafter:
the report) of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach
(hereinafter: PUMA), for the business year
starting January 1st to December 31st,
2016. It was not part of our engagement
to review any product or service related
statements, any links to external sources
future-looking statements or statements
from external experts.

Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Board of Directors is
responsible for the accurate preparation of
the report in accordance with the criteria
stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and the Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the

Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard
of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) (hereinafter: „GHG Protocol“).
This responsibility includes the selection
and application of appropriate methods
to prepare the report as well as the usage
of reasonable assumptions and estimates
for individual sustainability disclosures.
Furthermore, the responsibility includes
designing, implementing and maintaining
systems and processes relevant for the
preparation of the report in a way that it is
free of – intended or unintended – material
misstatements.

Our Independence and Quality
Control
We have met the requirements regarding
independence along with the additional requirements relating to professional
conduct of the IESBA Code of Ethics for

Professional Accountants, which is based
on the fundamental principles of integrity,
objectivity, professional competence and
due care, confidentiality and professional
conduct worthy of the profession.
The quality assurance system of Deloitte
GmbH is based on the International Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control
for Audit, Assurance and Related Service
Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition on
national statutory requirements and professional standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified Accountants
as well as the joint statement of WPK
(Chamber of Public Accountants) and IDW
(Institute of Public Auditors in Germany):
Requirements for quality assurance in the
auditing practice (VO 1/2006).

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed and the

evidences obtained on the above mentioned information of the report.

Procedures and Extend of the
Assurance Engagement
We conducted our work in accordance with
the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information”. This standard requires that
we comply with our professional duties and
give an attestation, based on the results of
our work, as to whether any matters have
come to our knowledge that could give rise
to the assumption that the sustainability
information as stated in the Annual Report
2016 does not comply, in all material respects, with the above mentioned criteria of
the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4
of the GRI.

COMPANY OVERVIEW | 83

In a limited assurance engagement the
evidence gathering procedures are more
limited than in a reasonable assurance
engagement. Hence, the scope of a limited review is less comprehensive and may
not reasonably assure all material facts
as could a reasonable assurance. The
selection of audit activities is subject to
the auditor’s own judgement. This includes
the assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the report under consideration of the GRI reporting criteria.
Our assurance procedures included the
following areas:
Strategy & Business Context
Chemical Management & Raw Materials
Environmental and Social Reporting
Emission Reporting (Scope 1, 2 and 3)
Logistics
Supply Chain Management (incl. Social
& Environmental Audit System)
Human Resources
Within the scope of our work, we performed amongst others the following procedures when conducting the limited
assurance engagement:
Gaining an understanding of the process
for determining material sustainability topics and respective boundaries of
PUMA
Interviews with relevant staff at group

level responsible for providing the data
84 | COMPANY OVERVIEW

and information, carrying out internal
control procedures and consolidating
the data and information, including the
explanatory notes (On-site interviews
and conference calls)
Analytical procedures on relevant data
Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the PUMA consolidated
financial statement and management
report
Evaluation of relevant information on

sustainability performance

Our Conclusion
Based on our limited review, nothing has
come to our knowledge that could give
rise to the assumption that the materiality analysis, management approaches and
quantitative and qualitative information in
the sustainability part of the annual report
2016 of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach does
not comply with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the GRI
and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
Standard of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD).

Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above,
we make the following recommendations
for the further development of the company‘s sustainability management and sustainability reporting:
Prioritisation and consequent implementation of 10FOR20 Action Plan measures
into operational business processes
Further development of automated and
simplified report mechanisms using existing system applications
Enhancement and continuous im
provement process of data contribution,
validation and consolidation of S- and
E-KPIs
This assurance report is issued based on
an assurance engagement agreed upon
with PUMA. The assurance engagement
to obtain limited assurance is issued for
the purposes of PUMA and the report is
intended solely to inform PUMA of the
results of the assurance engagement. This
assurance report is not intended as a basis
for (financial) decision-making by third
parties of any kind. We have responsibility only towards PUMA. We do not assume
any responsibilities for third parties.

Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Christof Stadter
(Certified Public Accountant)

Munich, 16 th February 2017
Vinzenz Fundel
(Manager Sustainability)

This report combines the Management Report of the PUMA Group and the
Management Report of PUMA SE according to German GAAP (HGB)

OVERVIEW 2016

86

PUMA GROUP ESSENTIAL INFORMATION

89

ECONOMIC REPORT

100

COMMENTS ON THE GERMAN GAAP
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF PUMA SE

114

COMPENSATION REPORT

117

RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT

119

SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT
AND OUTLOOK

125

INFORMATION
CONCERNING TAKEOVERS

127

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
INCLUDING THE STATEMENT
ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

129

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

W

OV ERVIEW 2016

Michael Lämmermann

2016 was a year of major sporting events
for PUMA. The Copa América, the European Football Championship and the Rio
Olympics proved to be great platforms
to present PUMA as an innovative and
86 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

design-oriented sports brand and set the
stage for our „Forever Faster“ mission
statement. The increasing sell-through
of our products and the growing interest
of consumers in our brand underlines the
fact that we have significantly improved
our product offering and have made great
strides in further strengthening our brand
heat. This can also be seen in the positive
reactions of our retail partners, with whom
we worked intensively again in 2016 to
position our brand and products even better in retail and wholesale. Our new product lines such as Fierce, Platform, IGNITE
Dual and the FENTY collections designed
by Rihanna have received a very positive
response from our consumers. Coupled
with a successful marketing with our brand
ambassadors such as Rihanna, Kylie Jenner and Cara Delevingne, and, not least,
the outstanding achievements of Usain
Bolt, PUMA managed to make 2016 a year
in which the company has gained further
positive momentum.
In our Teamsport category, the 2016 European Football Championship in France
provided the perfect stage for PUMA to
show its strength as an innovative and
design-oriented sports brand. With a brand

presence in almost 40 percent of all games,
PUMA‘s five teams were highly visible in
their jerseys with ACTV Thermo-R technology. France‘s Antoine Griezmann, who was
named Player of the Tournament by UEFA,
was the top goal scorer of the tournament,
with six goals in his two-toned PUMA
Tricks shoes. Prior to the European Championship, underdog Leicester City became
the first PUMA team to become English
Premier League champions, followed by
London-based PUMA team Arsenal, which
ended the season in second place.
Our Running and Training category drew
benefit from the enormous success
achieved by our athletes and partnered
associations at the Summer Olympics
in Rio. PUMA sprint star Usain Bolt won
gold medals in all three sprint competitions.
In total, our PUMA-sponsored Olympic
teams from Jamaica, the Bahamas, Cuba
and Grenada, as well as the track-and-field
teams from Switzerland, the Dominican
Republic and Barbados won ten gold, five
silver, and nine bronze medals. Another
highlight in our Running category was the
successful expansion of our IGNITE shoe
technology in various models.

In our Motorsport category, Nico Rosberg
won the Formula 1 world championship
for the first time in his career after a gripping final race. The Formula 1 racing team
MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS, which we
sponsor, also won the Constructors‘ Championship for the third time in a row. Our Golf
division again benefited from the excellent
performance of our numerous top players,
including Rickie Fowler and Lexi Thompson. The introduction of PUMA’s new KING
F7 drivers with ultralight GPS sensors in
the grip is revolutionizing the game of golf
and making it possible for players to carry
out a comprehensive analysis of their golf
game on their smartphone.
In line with our mantra „The future is
female“, we further sharpened our strategic
focus on the female target group in 2016.
A key element in this strategy is our partnership with Rihanna as brand ambassador and creative director. With her intuitive,
individual style, she has a direct influence
on our women‘s collections in our Performance and Sportstyle categories. September 2016 saw the launch of the first PUMA
collection under her FENTY label that
was first revealed at the New York Fash-

ion Week in February. A short time later,
Rihanna presented her 2017 spring/summer collection at Paris Fashion Week. This
second collection is inspired by the France
of the 18th century and combines influences from the time of Louis XVI with a modern street-style look.
Our “DO YOU” communication platform
has further strengthened our women’s
segment. Our aim with this campaign,
which is centered around model, actress,
and activist Cara Delevingne, is to inspire
self-confidence in women around the
world. A cross-collection range of products
from the Running and Training segments
and from our Sportstyle collection will be
advertised as part of the “DO YOU” campaign.
In order to improve the quality of our sales
and to increase sales, we continued to
work systematically to strengthen our relationships with our strategic retail partners.
In addition, we have established new initiatives and customer relationships with
major retail companies in traditional and
growing markets. In 2016, for example, we
successfully continued our long-term relationship with Foot Locker in North America and the jointly developed retail concept
„PUMA Lab“. In China, our partners opened
around 200 additional PUMA retail stores
during the past financial year. In terms of
the Group‘s own retail stores, we continued

the global roll-out of our „Forever Faster“
store concept to optimize the presentation
of our products and associated technologies and strengthen our positioning as a
sports brand.
We also made further progress in our
ongoing efforts to simplify our organizational structure and setup in the last financial year. For example, the flexibility of the
supply chain has improved as a result of
increased local sourcing („local-for-local“). In addition, our own employees were
moved closer to the production sites of our
suppliers in order to make faster decisions
and to make better use of synergies with
our suppliers. Regarding the optimization
of our IT, we continued to work on implementing a standardized ERP system. We
also focused on renewing our IT infrastructure and improving our design, product
development and planning processes. In
the past financial year, we also started the
process of expanding our Group headquarters in Herzogenaurach. The new administration building, which is scheduled to be
completed in spring 2018, is being erected
opposite the existing PUMAVision Headquarters and represents a clear commitment to the Herzogenaurach site.
The positive business development in
2016, with significantly improved sales of
our products - both in the Group‘s own retail
business, as well as with our partners and

major customers in wholesale - shows that
our efforts are already beginning to pay off
in the form of better products, better marketing and better cooperation with our retail
partners. This means we made major progress towards our goal of being the „Fastest
Sports Brand in the World“ in 2016.
The growth in PUMA‘s sales during 2016
shows that we are on the right path with
respect to increasing our brand awareness and improving our product offering.
The footwear segment was the strongest
driver of growth among the three product
segments and has recorded an increase
in sales in each of the past ten quarters.
Accordingly, consolidated sales increased
by 10.2% on a currency-adjusted basis
during the past financial year. This put
the currency-adjusted sales improvement
in the high single-digit percentage range,
which was even slightly higher than forecast in the previous annual report for 2016.
In the reporting currency, the euro, this
represents a 7.1% increase in sales from
around € 3.4 billion in the previous year
to around € 3.6 billion in 2016. The gross
profit margin improved by 20 basis points
to 45.7%, despite the strength of the US
dollar against a number of currencies, as
PUMA more than compensated for negative currency effects through selective
price adjustments and improvements in
sourcing. In addition, the increased share
of sales generated by the Group‘s own

retail activities had a positive impact on the
gross profit margin.
The moderate increase in other operating
income and expenses by only 5.7% contributed to a strong improvement in operating income (EBIT), which rose by 32.6%
from € 96.3 million to € 127.6 million in the
past financial year. The gross profit margin,
other operating income and expenses and
operating income were thus also within
the range of the forecast or slightly higher. Consolidated net earnings increased to
€62.4 million (previous year: € 37.1 million)
and earnings per share rose to € 4.17 compared to € 2.48 in the previous year.
Due to the successful business development, with a clear improvement in the
earnings situation and the free cash flow,
the Managing Directors will propose to the
Administrative Board and the Annual General Meeting on April 12, 2017, the distribution of a dividend of € 0.75 per share for the
2016 financial year (previous year: € 0.50).
At the end of the year, the PUMA share
listed at € 249.65, a 25.7% increase over
the share price at the end of the previous
year (€ 198.65). This means that the market capitalization has risen to around € 3.7
billion (previous year: € 3.0 billion).

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 87

From left to right: Bjørn Gulden, Walter Nussel, Lothar Matthäus, Nadine Keßler, Markus Söder, Alexander Tritthart, German Hacker

88 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

PUMA G ROUP ES SENT IAL INFORM AT ION
Commercial Activities and Organizational Structure
We trade under the name PUMA SE with
Group headquarters in Herzogenaurach,
Germany. Our internal reporting activities
are based according to regions (EMEA,
America and Asia/Pacific) and products
(footwear, apparel and accessories). A
detailed description of the various segments can be found in paragraph 25 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2016, 106 subsidiaries were controlled directly or indirectly by
PUMA SE. Our subsidiaries carry out various tasks at the local level, such as sales,
marketing, product development, sourcing
and management. A full list of all subsidiaries and an associated company can be
found in paragraph 2 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our revenues are derived from the sale of
products from the PUMA and COBRA Golf
brands via the wholesale and retail trade,
as well as from sales directly to consumers
in our own retail stores and online stores.
We market and distribute our products
worldwide primarily via our own subsidiaries. There are distribution agreements
in place with independent distributors in
some countries.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 89

Targets and Strategy
The results achieved in 2016 show that
PUMA is starting to gain momentum:
Throughout the year, we focused and
invested in events, products, and campaigns that took us yet again a step closer to becoming the Fastest Sports Brand
in the World. For us, the past year was
particularly exciting and characterized by
the following highlights: The football tournaments Copa América and UEFA Euro
2016, the Olympic Games in Rio and the
fantastic development of our women’s category.
We continued to make progress along our
five key strategic priorities: creating brand
heat for PUMA as the Fastest Sports Brand
in the World, further improving the product
engine with a strong pipeline of exciting and
commercial products, optimizing PUMA’s
distribution quality through stronger sellthrough, enhancement of organizational
speed and business processes as well as
strengthening PUMA’s women’s business.
These priorities will be at the center of our
strategy going forward. While we still have
a lot of work ahead of us, we feel that 2016
took us a big step forward within each of
these areas.
We have further strengthened our brand
heat, by leveraging our brand ambas90 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

sadors and cultivating the hype in social
media. We are proud to have long-standing partnerships with some of the world’s
greatest athletes, such as the Olympic legend Usain Bolt, who has been with PUMA
for almost 15 years. Additionally we have
new relationships with up-and-coming
stars and talents like the charismatic Silver-medalist Andre De Grasse, the one of
a kind Cara Delevingne, the R&B star, style
icon The Weeknd, and of course Rihanna
who have made a major impact in 2016.
During the UEFA Euro 2016 we ensured
high visibility with our five PUMA-sponsored teams Italy, Austria, Switzerland,
Slovakia and the Czech Republic. On
top, outstanding players such as Antoine
Griezmann, who was named player of
the tournament were wearing our distinctive two-colored Tricks boots. In terms of
media investments, we have shifted much
of our budget into online, and especially
social media channels. Not only our own
channels, but especially those of our brand
ambassadors and other influencers have
proven highly effective in reaching our
target consumers. In addition, we have
increasingly partnered with key customers
for the launch of new collections in order
to optimize sell-through and get our brand
noticed at the point of sale. Both the focus
on our ambassadors and social media as
well as the close integration of our retail
partners will continue to be integral parts
of our brand strategy.

On the product side, we introduced a number of key styles. The PUMA Fierce with
its highly distinctive silhouette and uncompromised performance attributes has been
an instant hit in terms of distribution, media
coverage and most importantly sales. Other new key footwear styles included the
IGNITE Dual and IGNITE Evoknit with its
modern mid-top silhouette that represents
the first style in our Street Running initiative. Our FENTY collection, that features apparel and footwear, was very well
received by press, retail partners and our
consumers. Some styles, such as the FENTY Creeper and the Leadcat, were sold out
within hours or even minutes. According
to our retail partners as well as independent research companies, we have gained
shares in most geographies and channels,
showing that PUMA products are again
resonating well with consumers.
In terms of improving the quality of distribution, we continued to strengthen our
relationships with key strategic accounts
and built new partnerships with strong
retailers in both established and emerging markets. One of the best examples is
our long-standing strong relationship with
Foot Locker in North America. For several
years, we have rolled out our jointly developed retail concept “PUMA Lab”. This has
helped to grow sell-through well beyond
just the “PUMA Lab” doors, especially in
Foot Locker’s women-only banner Six:02,

where PUMA sales have more than doubled. PUMA is also gaining traction with
other customers in the US, but also in
Europe, where PUMA has returned to double-digit growth rates in many markets.
In China, our partners such as Belle and
the YY Group have opened around 200
additional PUMA doors in 2016. PUMA’s
owned and operated retail sales developed
quite strongly throughout the year based
on a healthy like-for-like sales growth, an
increased number of own retail stores in
operation as well as significant momentum in our eCommerce business, which we
have moved into our global headquarters
in Herzogenaurach. We also continued our
worldwide roll-out of the “Forever Faster”
store layout, which contributed to this positive development. We will continue to build
on this momentum with our most important
accounts as well as our own retail stores
across geographies in 2017.
The continuous improvements made to
our systems, processes and overall organizational structure in the last two years
enabled us to further increase the flexibility
of our supply chain in 2016. Further rollouts
to build an improved, standardized global
IT foundation allow for faster and better
communication and information exchange,
which form the basis for strengthening and
improving the performance of our staff.
Closer proximity to the supplier by relocating employees to product operation

centers (POCs), increased local-for-local
production in countries such as India and
Mexico as well as implementing a new,
highly automated warehouse solution in
the United States will ensure faster lead
times for key markets and allow us to come
one step closer to our mantra of being “Forever Faster”.
An area where PUMA has received a lot
of attention in 2016 – and will continue to
put a special focus on – is our women’s
business. Building on PUMA’s fashion
credibility and sports authenticity, as well
as a profound understanding of the modern female athletic consumer, we have
positioned PUMA to address the segment
“where the gym meets the runway”. Not
only are women increasingly participating
in athletic activities worldwide, but they are
also taking inspiration from athletic wear
for their everyday wardrobe. In 2016 PUMA
has successfully introduced cross-category collections merging sports and fashion.
With our “DO YOU” campaign, which aims
to inspire confidence in women around
the world, we are changing the way we
address our female consumer. Additionally we are collaborating with a number of
strong female brand ambassadors such as
Rihanna, Kylie Jenner, the New York City
Ballet and Cara Delevingne to tell a powerful story. The reactions to our FENTY
PUMA by Rihanna runway shows during
the New York and Paris Fashion Weeks

have been overwhelmingly positive and
have created major social media buzz for
us. Our women-specific collections are
among the best performing styles in terms
of both sell-in and sell-through. Not only
have many major retailers made additional
space for our female collections, in many
accounts the success of our women’s line
has actually been a door opener to expand
our shelf space with men’s and kids styles.
Social, economic and environmental
sustainability is among the core values at
PUMA. In line with our Forever Faster mantra, we define sustainability as “Forever” Caring for the needs of the present without
compromising future needs and “Faster” –
in responding to economic, environmental
and social opportunities and challenges we
face. Our sustainability strategy is centered
around ten priority areas, which form our
10FOR20 sustainability targets. Our mission to be the Fastest Sports Brand in the
World includes assuming responsibility for
ensuring that our products are manufactured under appropriate working conditions
and produced by suppliers who respect
human rights and care for the environment.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 91

Product Development and
Design
In line with our mission statement of being
the Fastest Sports Brand in the World,
PUMA offers an attractive product range
of footwear, apparel and accessories within its Performance and Sportstyle categories. In 2016, we set ourselves the goal to
further improve our product offering: This
includes increasing design clarity by reducing and standardizing colors and material
components, and introducing more innovative technologies and more commercial
products. The positive response from our
retail partners and the increased sellthrough of our products in the past year
show that these improvements have been
well received by our customers. Lightness,
strength, comfort, and agility are among
the most important attributes of our product concepts in the Performance category, as for example demonstrated in our
successful IGNITE series in Running and
our Teamsport products. All of our Sportstyle ranges are inspired by our roots in
sport, combined with fashionable trends
for a sporty lifestyle. Under the leadership
of our Global Creative Director, Torsten
Hochstetter, we ensure a design language
that spans all our collections by organizing our product responsibility within global
business units and regional design centers.
92 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

In 2016, our product range in Performance
was dominated by major sporting events,
from the Copa América and the European
Championships in Football to the Summer
Olympics in Rio. These events provided the
perfect stage for us to show that PUMA is
an innovative and design-oriented sports
brand. At the European Championships in
France, we achieved a high level of visibility with our five participating teams in their
jerseys equipped with PUMA‘s innovative
ACTV Thermo-R technology. In addition
to many other individual players in PUMA
shoes, France’s Antoine Griezmann in particular attracted attention to our brand: He
was named Player of the Tournament by
UEFA and the six goals he scored in his duo
coloured PUMA Tricks shoes made him the
top goal scorer of the Championships.
In addition, PUMA also received a 2016
IPSO AWARD in the Apparel Performance
Products Outer Layer category for a Football product: Our evoTRG vent jacket with
dynamic temperature control has ergonomically-placed inserts that adapt to movements during football matches: The inserts
open during movement to cool the players,
and close during periods of rest to keep
players warm.
The Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro,
where PUMA athletes won a total of ten
gold, five silver, and nine bronze medals,
were also a perfect opportunity to show-

case our products and establish our credibility as a sports brand. As supplier of all
the competition and training apparel of the
Caribbean nations Jamaica, Cuba, Grenada, the Dominican Republic, the Bahamas and Barbados, as well as other associations like Switzerland, we once again
showed – led by the Fastest Man in the
World, Usain Bolt, and with the three gold
medals he won in Rio in the 100, 200 and
4x100 meter races – that no other brand
stands for speed the way we do.
Other highlights of our product range in
Running and Training included our successful IGNITE series with the IGNITE
Dual for the fall/winter season. Its innovative sole construction and the proven
IGNITE foam offer an ideal combination of flexible grip and good cushioning,
especially for medium and long-distance
runners. Our apparel, with its strong colors and simplified designs, gives our customers a dynamic look when engaging in
sports.
Our Motorsport category saw the introduction of our latest model in the DISC family
with the metallic-silver shoe BMW X-CAT
DISC. This striking shoe is another example of our reintroduced DISC technology,
which uses an intelligent fastening system developed in 1991 to provide an optimal and comfortable grip. Formula 1 is
dominated by PUMA-sponsored teams

such as MERCEDES AMG PETRONAS,
Scuderia Ferrari and Red Bull Racing,
which hold top places in the Drivers‘ and
Constructors‘ Championships in what has
been an enormously successful season
thus far.
We were particularly pleased with the sustained success of our product concepts for
women. In keeping with our mission statement „The future is female“, we have systematically expanded our women‘s collection over the past two years. We achieved
major success in this segment again in
2016, especially in Sportstyle. The overwhelming response to our „FENTY PUMA
by Rihanna“ fashion show at New York
Fashion Week in February, for example,
gave a boost to the launch of other FENTY collections. The FENTY Trainer and the
CREEPER model, which was released in
new colors, sold out within a few days, and
the Fur Slide sandal sold out after just a
few hours or minutes. As part of our partnership with Kylie Jenner, who has a great
influence on young women in the USA and
is a new brand ambassador of PUMA, we
launched another revolutionary silhouette
– the FIERCE training shoe.
After launching our first, long-awaited
„FENTY PUMA by Rihanna“ collection
in September for the fall/winter season,
Rihanna presented her 2017 spring/summer collection at Paris Fashion Week only

Senior Project Manager

“A MOMENT of success in 2016 was definitely our official groundbreaking event in May, which marked the beginning of construction
works for the expansion of PUMA our headquarters in Herzogenaurach. With modern office spaces and an extension of our sports
offering, we will be able to provide even more attractive working
conditions to our employees. The bridge connecting the buildings is
a symbolic gateway to the city.”

a short time later. This second collection is
inspired by the France of the 18th century
and combines influences from the time of
Louis XVI with a modern street-style look.
We also further strengthened our Women‘s
segment with the launch of our „DO YOU“
campaign, which aims to inspire self-confidence in women around the world. The
campaign is spearheaded by Cara Delevingne, an international model, actress and
activist who complements PUMA‘s growing number of influential brand ambassadors. „DO YOU“ involves a cross-collection
range of products from Running and Training and our Sportstyle collection.

PUMA is continuously researching new
technologies and constantly developing
new products that meet the high standards
of high-performance athletes and consumers in terms of design, quality, technical
characteristics and wearing comfort.
Research and product development at
PUMA mainly comprises the areas of innovation (new technologies), product design,
and model and collection development.
The research and product development
activities range from the analysis of scientific studies and customer surveys, through
the generation of creative ideas, to the

MOMENTUM

Harry Huk

implementation of innovations in commercial products. The activities in research and
product development are directly linked to
sourcing activities.
As of December 31, 2016, a total of 525
employees were employed in research
and product development. Expenses for
research and product development totaled
€ 52.0 million in 2016.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 93

Sourcing
The Sourcing Organisation
Sourcing refers to the central management
of the purchasing of products for PUMA
and the Group’s own brand, COBRA.
All necessary sourcing functions in the
Group are merged in PUMA Group Sourcing.
PUMA International Trading GmbH
(PIT), PUMA’s globally active trading company which has its head office in Herzogenaurach (Germany), is the Group company mainly respons n addition, through
its service companies in Hong Kong,
PIT manages cooperation with suppliers
worldwide and also oversees the production processes at the sourcing sites in China, Vietnam, Bangladesh, India, Turkey,
South Africa, Brazil, and Mexico. Hedging
is also centralized at PIT. The centralized
control of these processes guarantees
a high degree of transparency within the
supply chain and reduces sourcing complexity.
The processes of PUMA Group Sourcing
are continuously improved in line with the
six core principles of partnership, transparency, flexibility, speed, simplicity, and effectiveness, thus satisfying the aim of offering
service at a high level for all PUMA brands
94 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

and creating a sustainable production and
supply chain. In order to further strengthen
the link between customer demands, product design and production, product knowledge is moved closer to production, thus
ensuring any developments in the market
can be adapted to more quickly. PUMA
Group Sourcing’s worldwide production
network, which is the main focus of PIT’s
efforts, helps to optimize the supply chain
by working with independent manufacturers, from materials purchase to manufacturing through to product delivery. The aim
is to offer an optimum service to the various
PUMA brands in order to meet and continue to improve global requirements for quality and safety along with environmental and
social aspects in production. At the same
time, the centralized sourcing responsibility
results in regular improvements to sourcing
costs, sourcing flexibility, and the required
supply reliability.
In 2016, PUMA’s sustainability function
(Corporate Sustainability department, formerly PUMA Safe) was integrated into
PUMA Group Sourcing. This ensures
that social and environmental issues and
standards of good corporate governance
are integrated into day-to-day sourcing
activities. The service companies in Hong
Kong that are managed by PIT are mainly
responsible for compliance with PUMA’s
own standards and statutory standards.

F.1

The Sourcing Markets

Sourcing Markets 2016

During the financial year 2016, PUMA
Group Sourcing worked with 163 suppliers
in 34 countries via PIT. The strategic cooperation with long-term partners was one of
the key competitive advantages in 2016,
ensuring stable procurement in turbulent
market conditions. The trend away from
China toward Vietnam as the main production country continued in 2016.
America (4%)
Asia (89%)

Africa (1%)
Europe (6%)

Asia remains the strongest sourcing region
overall with 89% of the total volume, followed by Europe with 6%, America with
4%, and Africa with 1%.

China followed at 23%, a decline of 3 percentage points from 2015. Cambodia was
in third place at 12%. Bangladesh, which
focuses on apparel, is in fourth place at
10%. Indonesia, which focuses on footwear production, produces 5% of the total
volume and is in fifth place. India is in sixth
place at 3%.
Rising wage costs and macroeconomic
influences affected the sourcing markets in
2016. This increases the need to take into
account the risks of these factors when
allocating production. This is a crucial component of our sourcing strategy in order to
ensure the secure and competitive sourcing of products.

As a result, the six most important sourcing countries (85% of the total volume) are
all located on the Asian continent. Vietnam
was the strongest production country again
in 2016 with a total of 32%, an increase of 4
percentage points from the previous year.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 95

Sourcing Regions of PUMA Group Sourcing

AMERICAS
APAC

96 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

EMEA

APAC

Development Employees

F.2

F.3

Employees (year-end)

12,000

5,483

Marketing /Retail

5,668

10,000
8,000

Sales

6,000

Product Management/
Merchandising

4,000

2,249
2,241
342
364

0
2012

2013
Employees (annual average)

2014

2015

2016

Employees (year-end)

– 0.4%
2015

+6.3%

527

Research &
Development

2,000

525

2016

–0.4%
2,750

Administration and
General Units

2,698

0

+3.4%

1,000

2,000

–1.9%
3,300

4,000

5,000

6,000

Employees
Number of Employees
The worldwide number of employees on
average for the year was 11,128 in 2016
compared to 10,988 in the previous year.
The increase was mainly related to the
higher number of the Group’s own retail
stores.
In 2016, personnel costs increased by
1.9% from € 483.8 million to € 493.1 million. On average, personnel expenses per

employee amounted to € 44.3 thousand,
compared to € 44.0 thousand in the previous year.
As of December 31, 2016, the number
of employees was 11,495, compared to
11,351 at the end of the previous year.

number of employees in Product Management/Merchandising increased by 6.3%
to 364, while the number of employees
in the administrative and general units
declined by 1.9 % to 2,698. The number of
employees in Research and Development
remained largely stable at 525.

In the Marketing/Retail segment, the number of employees increased by 3.4 % to
5,668. The number of employees in Sales
remained largely stable at 2,241. The
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 97

Talent Recruitment and
Development
PUMA’s success depends to a large extent
on its employees. In order to secure and
expand our position in the market, it is
essential that we have highly qualified
and motivated personnel. Our recruitment
strategy allows us to recruit external talent
through different channels according to
specific target groups and thus strengthen
our workforce.
In addition to performance assessment and
target-setting, our global performance management system includes talent management and systematic succession planning.
This system serves as the basis for the
annual employee interviews and for identifying talent within the company. PUMA has set
itself the goal of developing this talent individually, both in Germany and internationally, and creating a high degree of employee
loyalty to ensure that staff is retained in the
long term. This shows that we regard our
employees as an important and valuable
asset. The long-term retention of motivated
and capable employees is a core element of
competitiveness today and ensures that we
can perform well both as a company and an
employer in our dynamic environment and
can adapt to changes in the market.
The continuous professional and personal development of our employees also
98 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

ensures that our workforce has the necessary skills to ensure steady growth and
market expertise. In our effort to provide
adequate entry-level and development
opportunities to talented individuals at all
levels, in addition to the range of different
training and dual-track (combined workstudy) programs, we also promote the systematic training of our professionals and
managers. We continually develop our
PUMA training offers in order to ensure
that our employees have at all times comprehensive and diverse options to add to
their qualifications, build on existing knowledge and acquire new skills. This approach
helps employees achieve their personal
goals and helps the company achieve its
goals as well. In addition to a training program with a broad range of individual courses and workshops, a large number of seminars is offered with the aim of developing
employees and managers over the longer
term, giving them the opportunity to apply
their newly acquired knowledge in practice
between the individual modules and then
to discuss this with other seminar participants. For example, this year we continued
to enhance our successful International
Leadership Program (ILP), an internal program consisting of several modules, on a
worldwide scale. In addition, in Speed Up²
we have developed a new training program
that will intensively prepare our top talents
for the next steps in their career. Participants, who are selected for the program by

a panel of executives and human resources representatives, work with a personal
mentor. The first Speed Up² module took
place in November.

Compensation
PUMA offers its employees a targeted and
competitive compensation system, which
consists of several components. In addition
to a fixed base salary, the PUMA bonus
system, profit-sharing programs and various social benefits and intangible benefits
form part of a performance-based compensation system. We also offer long-term
incentive programs for senior management
levels that recognize the sustainable development and performance of the business.

Trade Marketing & VM Executive

“The highlight for me was the opening of our new PUMA Italy
headquarters in Milan. The new office adapts much better to the
needs of employees and aligns with our “Forever Faster” vision.
In terms of sustainability and visibility in the city, the building and
location also fits our requirements perfectly. I’m looking forward
to seeing PUMA Italy accomplish many great things in their new
home.”

Management System
We use a variety of indicators to manage
our performance in relation to our top corporate goals. We have defined growth and
profitability as being key targets within
finance-related areas. Our focus therefore
is on improving sales, gross profit margin and operating income (EBIT). These
are the most important financial control
variables. In addition, we aim to minimize
working capital and improve free cash flow.
Our Group’s Planning and Management
System has been designed to provide a
variety of instruments in order to assess
current business developments and derive
future strategy and investment decisions.
This involves the continuous monitoring of

key financial indicators within the PUMA
Group along with a monthly comparison
with budget targets. Any deviations from
the targets are analyzed in detail and
appropriate countermeasures are taken in
the event such deviations have a negative
impact.
Changes in sales revenues are also influenced by currency exchange effects.
This is why we also state any changes
in sales in euro, the reporting currency,
adjusted for currency exchange effects,
in order to provide information that is relevant to the decision-making process when
assessing the revenue position. Currency-adjusted sales volumes are used for
comparison purposes and are based on
the values that would arise if the foreign

MOMENTUM

Miguel Angel Domene

currencies included in the consolidated
financial statements were not translated at
the average rates for the previous reporting
year but were instead translated at the corresponding average rates for the current
year. As a result, currency-adjusted figures
are not to be regarded as a substitute or
as superior financial indicators, but should
instead always be regarded as additional
information.
We use the indicator free cash flow in order
to determine the change in cash and cash
equivalents after deducting all expenses
incurred to maintain or expand the organic
business of the PUMA Group. Free cash
flow is calculated from the cash flow from
operating activities and investment activities. We also use the indicator free cash

flow before acquisitions, which goes
beyond free cash flow and includes an
adjustment for payments that are associated with investments in companies.
We use the indicator working capital
in order to assess the financial position.
Working capital is the difference between
other current assets - including in particular
inventories and trade receivables - and current liabilities. Amounts that are received in
connection with financing activities are not
included in working capital.
Non-financial performance indicators are
of only minor importance at PUMA as control variables.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 99

EC ONOMIC REPORT
General Economic Conditions
Global Economy
The global economy emerged from the
worst of the economic downturn during the
course of 2016. The expansion of the global economy was weak overall in 2016, but
began accelerating slightly from the middle
of the year. According to the winter forecast
of the Kiel Institute for the World Economy
(IfW), the increase in global gross domestic
product (GDP) for 2016 will be 3.1%. This
is again slightly below the level of the previous year, which was already weak, and
corresponds to the lowest growth since the
crisis year 2009.
Economic growth in the advanced economies remained moderate, with the GDP in
the United States (+1.6%), the United Kingdom (+1.6%), the Euro zone (+1.7%) and in
Japan (+1.0%) at a similarly subdued level.
The emerging markets economies have
recently seen an overall stronger performance, but major problems remain in some
countries. While China‘s GDP grew signifi100 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Sales
cantly (+6.6%) thanks to its expansionary
economic policy, Russia (-0.6%) and Brazil
(-3.5%) remained in recession.

Illustration of Sales Development in 2016 Compared to
2015 Outlook

The Sporting Goods Industry

In the 2015 Annual Report, we forecast a
currency-adjusted increase in consolidated
sales at a high single-digit rate for the financial year 2016. This was confirmed during
the year and was even slightly exceeded
for the full year 2016.

The global sporting goods industry recorded solid growth in 2016. The main growth
drivers were the increase in consumer spending due to higher incomes and
the worldwide increase in participation in
sports. The trend towards more and more
women being active in sports contributed
to this positive performance. In addition,
the global sports fashion trend continued.
With regard to sales channels, the eCommerce business continued to record the
highest growth rates. However, volatile
currency movements, and, in particular,
the strong US dollar, which made products
more expensive, had a dampening effect
on the profitability of some companies in
the sporting goods sector.

More details on sales development are provided below.

Consolidated Sales

F.4

Consolidated Sales by Product Segments

F.5
€ million
4,000

2016

3,500
3,000

2015

2,500
2,000

2014

1,500
1,000

2013

500
0

2012
2,000

2012
2,200

2,400

2,600

2,800

3,000

3,200

3,400

3,600

3,800
€ million

Consolidated Sales
PUMA increased consolidated sales in the financial year 2016 in euro, the reporting currency, by 7.1 % to € 3,626.7 million. Currency-adjusted sales increased by 10.2%. This
result even slightly exceeds the forecast of currency-adjusted sales growth at a high single-digit rate. All regions and product segments contributed to this positive performance.
The main driver for the growth in sales was PUMA’s most important segment, footwear,
which at the end of the 2016 financial year had been on a sustained growth trend over the
past ten quarters: Sales in euro, the reporting currency, rose by 8.0 % to € 1,627.0 million,
supported by the Running, Sportstyle and Fundamentals categories. The currency-adjusted sales increase was 12.6 %. This segment’s share in consolidated sales rose from 44.5
% in 2015 to 44.9 % in the reporting year.

2013
Accessories

2014
Apparel

2015

2016

Footwear

In the reporting currency, the euro, sales in the apparel segment rose by 7.1 % to €
1,333.2 million. The currency-adjusted sales increase was 9.6 %. All product categories contributed to this positive performance. The largest increases were achieved in the
Sportstyle category, especially with products for women. The apparel segment accounted
for 36.8 % of consolidated sales (previous year: 36.7 %).
Sales in the accessories segment increased by 4.7 % to € 666.5 million in the reporting currency, the euro, despite the stable development of the golf club business. This
corresponds to a currency-adjusted increase of 5.9 %. The share of consolidated sales
decreased to 18.4 % (previous year: 18.8 %).

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 101

Retail Sales

F.6
€ million
800

%
24

700

21

600

18

500

15

400

12

300

9

200

6

100

3
0

0
2012

License Sales / Royalty and Commission Income in %

F.7

2013

Retail Sales

2014

2015

2016

in % of Consolidated Sales

Retail Businesses
The Group‘s own retail activities include PUMA Stores, factory outlets and online sales,
each with direct sales to our consumers (direct-to-consumer business). In addition
to regional availability, this ensures the controlled sale of PUMA products as well as
the presentation of the PUMA brand in an environment appropriate to our brand positioning.
Sales in the Group‘s own retail businesses improved on a currency-adjusted basis by
12.5 % to € 794.3 million during the 2016 financial year. This corresponds to a share of
21.9 % of total sales (previous year: 21.4 %). The sales growth was achieved both on a
comparable area basis in our own retail stores and through the targeted expansion of the
portfolio of the company‘s own retail stores. In addition to the opening of additional retail
stores, the optimization of the portfolio also included the modernization of existing retail
stores as well as the roll-out of the „Forever Faster“ store concept at other locations. This
102 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

€ million

%

400

16

300

12

200

8

100

4

0

0
2012

2013

License sales

2014

2015

2016

Royalty and commission income in %

makes it possible to present PUMA products and related technologies in an even more
attractive environment and strengthens PUMA‘s position as a sports brand.
The eCommerce business recorded above-average growth, supported by the expansion
of the product offering in the online stores and the opening of further online platforms.
Our sales promotion measures on special days in the online business, for example on
November 11, the largest online shopping day in the world, and on „Cyber Monday“,
were particularly successful. In addition, the new products introduced, for example from
the „FENTY PUMA by Rihanna“ collection, were extremely well received by our online
customers.

Licensing Business

More details on earnings development are provided below.

For various product segments, such as fragrances, eyewear, and watches, PUMA issues
licenses authorizing independent partners to design, develop and sell these products.
Revenue from license agreements also includes some sales licenses for various markets.

T.1

Income Statement
2016
€ million

License sales decreased in 2016 due to the expiration of some licensing agreements, both
in the reporting currency, the euro, and, on a currency-adjusted basis, by 4.3 % to € 104.3
million. Of this amount, € 15.7 million or 15.1 % was attributable to license and commission
income, compared with € 16.5 million (15.1 %) in the previous year.

Sales

% +/–%

3,387.4

100.0%

7.1%

Cost of sales

-1,970.3

-54.3%

-1,847.2

-54.5%

6.7%

Gross profit

1,656.4

45.7%

1,540.2

45.5%

7.5%

15.7

0.4%

16.5

0.5%

-5.3%

-1,544.5

-42.6%

-1,460.5

-43.1%

5.7%

127.6

3.5%

96.3

2.8%

32.6%

-8.7

-0.2%

-11.2

-0.3%

-22.0%

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

118.9

3.3%

85.0

2.5%

39.8%

Taxes on income

-30.5

-0.8%

-23.3

-0.7%

30.7%

Operating income (EBIT)
Financial result / Income from associated
companies

In the outlook in the 2015 Annual Report, PUMA forecast for a gross profit margin at the
previous year‘s level (45.5 %) for the 2016 financial year, as PUMA had planned countermeasures to offset the negative effects of developments in exchange rates. For other
operating income and expenses, PUMA expected an increase at a mid to high single-digit
rate, as plans called for continued investment in marketing, in the company‘s own retail
stores and in the IT infrastructure. The forecast for operating income (EBIT) was in a
range between € 115 million and € 125 million. In addition, a corresponding improvement
in net earnings was expected. These forecasts were confirmed during the year and, for
the full year 2016, were achieved in full, or, in the case of gross profit margin and operating income, even slightly exceeded. As a result, PUMA was able to achieve the targeted
improvement in its operating income and operating margin for 2016.

€ million

100.0%

Other operating income and expenses

Illustration of Earnings Development in 2016 Compared to 2015

%

3,626.7

Royalty and commission income

Results of Operations

2015

Tax rate
Net earnings attributable to non-controlling
interests
Net earnings

-27.5%

-25.7%
-26.0

-0.7%

-24.6

-0.7%

5.8%

62.4

1.7%

37.1

1.1%

68.0%

Weighted average shares outstanding (million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

Weighted average shares outstanding, diluted
(million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

Earnings per share in €

4.17

2.48

68.0%

Earnings per share, diluted in €

4.17

2.48

68.0%

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 103

F.8

Gross Profit/Gross Profit Margin

F.9

€ million

%

%

1,800

50

45

1,600

46

40

1,400

42

35

38

30

1,200
2012

2013
Gross Profit

2014

2015

2016

Operating Expenses as a % of Consolidated Sales

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Gross Profit Margin in %

Gross Profit Margin

Other Operating Income and Expenses

In the financial year 2016, gross profit increased by 7.5 % from € 1,540.2 million to
€ 1,656.4 million.

The strong focus on tightly controlling other operating income and expenses remained a
high priority for PUMA in the 2016 financial year.

The gross profit margin increased by 20 basis points from 45.5 % to 45.7 %, as PUMA was
able to more than compensate for negative currency effects resulting from the strength of
the US dollar against a number of currencies by selectively increasing prices and improving sourcing. In addition, the increased share of sales generated by the Group‘s own retail
activities had a positive impact on the gross profit margin.

Nevertheless, further targeted investments were made in marketing in order to increase
the brand awareness of PUMA and to position PUMA as the Fastest Sports Brand in the
World. Investments were also made in the modernization of the Group‘s own retail stores
and in the continued roll-out of the „Forever Faster“ store concept. The opening of additional retail stores also contributed to the increase in other operating income and expenses. In addition, we continued modernizing our IT infrastructure.

Accordingly, the gross profit margin in the footwear segment increased from 41.2 % in the
previous year to 42.5 %. Apparel recorded a decline from 49.3 % to 48.4 %, while gross
profit margin for accessories remained virtually unchanged at 47.9 %.

104 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

In the 2016 financial year, other operating income and expenses increased by 5.7 % from
€1,460.5 million to € 1,544.5 million. As a percentage of sales, the expense ratio improved

from 43.1 % to 42.6 %. The decline in the expense ratio reflects the operating leverage
achieved and contributes significantly to the increase in operating income.
In sales and distribution expenses, expenses for marketing/retail increased by 5.0 % from
€ 697.6 million to € 732.3 million. This development is primarily related to the systematic
continuation of the „Forever Faster“ brand campaign and the increased number of the
Group‘s own retail stores. However, due to the strong growth in sales, the expense ratio
decreased from 20.6 % to 20.2 %. Other sales and distribution expenses stood at € 450.1
million, an increase of 1.7 %. The expense ratio decreased from 13.1 % to 12.4 %.
Expenditures for product management and merchandising increased by 11.2 % to € 41.7
million. The expense ratio remained stable at 1.2 % (previous year: 1.1 %). Expenditures for research and development fell by 8.4 % to € 52.0 million and the corresponding
expense ratio was 1.4 % (previous year: 1.7 %).
Other operating income declined from € 23.9 million in the previous year to € 0.9 million in
2016. The decrease was due to the lower allocation for development costs and the onetime income related to the sale of the Tretorn brand rights in the previous year.
Administrative and general expenses increased by 7.8 % from € 249.8 million to € 269.3
million. The increase was due to, among other things, higher expenses for IT and value adjustments for receivables. In contrast, other administrative and general expenses
remained virtually constant. The expense ratio of administrative and general expenses
remained unchanged at 7.4 %.
Depreciation/amortization totaling € 59.9 million (previous year: € 57.5 million) is included
under the respective expenses. This represents a 4.1 % increase in depreciation/amortization compared to the previous year.

Operating income (EBIT)
Operating income rose by 32.6 % from € 96.3 million to € 127.6 million in 2016. This result
is slightly above the projected range for EBIT between € 115 million and € 125 million.

Operational Result – EBIT

F.10
€ million

%

300

15

200

10

100

5

0

0
2012

2013
Operating Profit

2014

2015

2016

as a % of Sales

As a result, the operating margin improved from 2.8 % in 2015 to 3.5 % in the reporting
year. This is mainly due to the growth in sales combined with the only moderate increase
in other operating income and expenses and the simultaneous slight improvement in the
gross profit margin.

Financial Result
The financial result improved from € -11.2 million in the previous year to € -8.7 million in
2016. With virtually stable financial income of € 10.5 million (previous year: € 11.2 million),
interest expenses decreased from € 14.4 million to € 13.4 million in the financial year, and
expenses from currency conversion differences declined from € 8.2 million to € 6.4 million.
The result from the associated company Wilderness Holdings Ltd, which is also included
in the financial result, increased to € 1.2 million in 2016 (previous year: € 1.0 million).

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 105

Earnings before Taxes (EBT)
In the financial year 2016, PUMA generated earnings before taxes of € 118.9 million,
an improvement of 39.8 % over the previous year (€ 85.0 million). The tax expense was
€ 30.5 million, compared to € 23.3 million in the previous year. The decrease in the tax rate
from 27.5% to 25.7% in 2016 resulted mainly from the adjustment of tax provisions after
the underlying audits were completed.

Net Earnings Attributable to Non-controlling Interests
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests relate to our joint ventures in the North
American market; they increased by 5.8 % to € 26.0 million in 2016 (previous year: € 24.6
million). These companies are Janed, which sells socks and bodywear, PUMA Accessories North America (previously: PUMA Wheat Accessories) and PUMA Kids Apparel,
which focuses on the sale of children‘s clothing.

F.11

Earnings/Dividend per Share

in €

in €

5.00

1.25

4.00

1.00

3.00

0.75

2.00

0.50

1.00

0.25
0.00

0.00
2012

Consolidated Net Earnings
Consolidated net earnings increased in 2016 by 68.0 % from € 37.1 million to € 62.4 million. The main reason for the improvement was the growth of sales in connection with the
only moderate increase in other operating income and expenses and the simultaneous
slight improvement in the gross profit margin. The improvement in the financial result and
the lower tax rate also contributed to the increase in consolidated net earnings.
As a result, both earnings per share and diluted earnings per share rose by 68.0 % to
€ 4.17 in comparison to € 2.48 in the previous year.

2013
Earnings per Share

2014

2015

2016

Dividend per Share

Dividends
The dividend policy of PUMA SE is based mainly on the development of consolidated net
earnings and free cash flow.
The Managing Directors will recommend to the Administrative Board at the Annual General Meeting on April 12, 2017 that a dividend of € 0.75 per share be distributed from PUMA
SE’s net earnings for financial year 2016 (previous year: € 0.50). The increase in the dividend results from the improvement in consolidated net earnings and free cash flow in the
past financial year. As a percentage of net earnings, the payout ratio amounts to 18.0 %,
compared to 20.2 % in the previous year. The dividends will be distributed in the days following the Annual General Meeting at which the resolution on the distribution is adopted.

106 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

EMEA Sales

F.12

Americas Sales

F.13

€ million

€ million

1,400

1,400

1,200

1,200

1,000

1,000

800

800

600

600

400

400

200

200
0

0
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Regional Development
The currency-adjusted growth in consolidated sales of 10.2 % in 2016 is attributable to the
positive development in all regions.
Growth in the EMEA region was particularly strong. Sales in the reporting currency,
the euro, increased by 9.9 % to € 1,382.7 million. This corresponds to a currency-adjusted increase in sales of 13.2 %. Particularly strong contributions came from France
and the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland), which recorded doubledigit sales growth. In addition, Russia and South Africa performed very well,
also recording double-digit sales growth. The share of the EMEA region in consolidated sales increased from 37.1 % in the previous year to 38.1 % in the 2016 financial
year.

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

All three product segments recorded a double-digit increase in sales on a currency-adjusted basis. Sales of footwear increased by 13.4 % on a currency-adjusted basis. In
apparel, sales improved by 14.6 % on a currency-adjusted basis and accessories recorded currency-adjusted sales growth of 10.9 %.
Sales in the Americas region rose by 2.2 % to € 1,339.6 million in the reporting currency, the euro. On a currency-adjusted basis, sales increased by 8.3 %, with both North
and Latin America contributing to the growth. The weakness of the currencies in Latin
America, particularly in Argentina, continued to impact the development of sales in euro,
the reporting currency, in 2016. The share of the Americas region in consolidated sales
therefore fell from 38.7 % to 36.9 %.
In the segments, footwear was the main growth driver: On a currency-adjusted basis,
sales improved by 11.4 %. Apparel sales increased by 7.7 % on a currency-adjusted basis

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 107

Asia/Pacific Sales

F.14
€ million
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

and accessories recorded a currency-adjusted sales increase of 1.9 % compared to the
previous year.
In the reporting currency, the euro, sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 10.5 % to
€ 904.5 million. The currency-adjusted sales increase was 8.5 %. The main drivers of
growth in the region were China, with a double-digit increase in sales, followed by India,
which also recorded strong sales growth. The difficult market environment in Japan and
Korea, on the other hand, allowed only a stable development of sales in 2016. The share
of the Asia/Pacific region in consolidated sales rose from 24.2 % to 24.9 % in 2016.
With regard to the product segments, the footwear segment continued its strong growth.
Currency-adjusted footwear sales rose by 13.5 %. Apparel sales rose by 5.7 % on a currency-adjusted basis and accessories increased by 1.3 % on a currency-adjusted basis
compared to the previous year.

108 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Net Assets and Financial Position
T.2

Balance Sheet
31.12.2016

31.12.2015

€ million

%

€ million

%

+/–%

Cash and cash equivalents

326.7

11.8%

338.8

12.9%

-3.6%

Inventories

718.9

26.0%

657.0

25.1%

9.4%

Trade receivables

499.2

18.1%

483.1

18.4%

3.3%

Other current assets (Working Capital)

141.4

5.1%

154.9

5.9%

-8.7%

79.2

2.9%

51.0

1.9%

55.4%

1,765.4

63.8%

1,684.8

64.3%

4.8%

Deferred taxes

229.5

8.3%

219.8

8.4%

4.4%

Other non-current assets

770.2

27.9%

715.7

27.3%

7.6%

Non-current assets

999.7

36.2%

935.5

35.7%

6.9%

2,765.1

100.0%

2,620.3

100.0%

5.5%

25.3

0.9%

14.0

0.5%

81.5%

Trade liabilities

580.6

21.0%

519.7

19.8%

11.7%

Other current liabilities (Working Capital)

242.3

8.8%

242.4

9.3%

-0.1%

46.6

1.7%

103.9

4.0%

-55.1%

894.9

32.4%

880.0

33.6%

1.7%

Deferred taxes

63.1

2.3%

64.2

2.5%

-1.8%

Pension provisions

31.6

1.1%

23.8

0.9%

32.8%

Other current assets
Current assets

Total assets
Current financial liabilities

Other current liabilities
Current liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

53.3

1.9%

32.9

1.3%

61.8%

148.0

5.4%

121.0

4.6%

22.3%

Shareholders' equity

1,722.2

62.3%

1,619.3

61.8%

6.4%

Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity

2,765.1

100.0%

2,620.3

100.0%

5.5%

Non-current liabilities

Working capital
- in % of consolidated sales

536.6

532.9

14.8%

15.7%

0.7%

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 109

Total Assets/Equity Ratio

F.15

Working Capital

F.16
%

€ million

%

3,000

70

700

21

2,500

65

600

18

500

15

2,000

60
400

12

1,500

55

300

9

1,000

50

200

6

500

45

100

3

40

0

€ million

0
2012

2013
Total Assets

2014

2015

2016

Equity Ratio in %

0
2012

2013
Working Capital

2014

2015

2016

as a % of Consolidated Sales

Equity Ratio

Working Capital

PUMA continues to have an extremely solid capital base. As of December 31, 2016, total
assets increased by 5.5 % from € 2,620.3 million to € 2,765.1 million. Equity rose by 6.4%
from € 1,619.3 million to € 1,722.2 million. The equity ratio accordingly improved by 0.5
percentage points from 61.8 % to 62.3 %.

Despite the significant increase in sales and the rise in the number of the Group‘s own
retail stores, working capital increased only slightly in the past financial year by 0.7 % from
€ 532.9 million to € 536.6 million. This underpins the strong performance in working capital management. In order to ensure product availability even when demand is strong and
to meet the increased need for products due to our new retail stores, inventories increased
by 9.4 % compared to the previous year from € 657.0 million to € 718.9 million. Trade
receivables increased by 3.3 % from € 483.1 million to € 499.2 million. Trade payables
rose by 11.7 % and totaled € 580.6 million as of December 31, 2016, compared to € 519.7
million in the previous year.

110 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Other Assets and Other Liabilities

Cash Flow

Other current assets, which include the market value of derivative financial instruments,
T.3
increased compared to the previous year by 55.4 % to € 79.2 million.
Other non-current assets, consisting mainly of intangible assets and property, plant and
equipment, rose by 7.6 % to € 770.2 million, mainly due to investments in the Group‘s
own retail stores, IT infrastructure and the expansion of the administration building at the
Group headquarters in Herzogenaurach.

Cash Flow Statement

Earnings before tax (EBT)
Financial result and non cash effected expenses
and income

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

+/–%

118.9

85.0

39.8%

64.1

49.4

29.6%

182.9

134.5

36.0%

-0.2

-125.1

-99.8%
10.9%

Other current liabilities decreased year on year from € 103.9 million to € 46.6 million. The
reduction resulted from the repayment of current financial liabilities, which were taken out
as part of financing activities by companies included in the Kering Group.

Gross cash flow

Taxes, interest and dividend payments

-51.6

-46.5

The increase in pension provisions by 32.8 % to € 31.6 million resulted mainly from a fall
in the interest rate applied for valuation and the discounting of pension obligations, since
yields on top-rated fixed-income corporate bonds in the market have decreased. The
resulting actuarial loss is allocated to other income in accordance with IFRS accounting
principles.

Net cash from / used in operating activities

131.1

-37.1

-6.8

-0.5

-84.3

-79.0

6.8%

9.8

17.8

-45.0%

-81.4

-61.7

31.9%

Other non-current liabilities rose by 61.8 % year on year to € 53.3 million. This increase
is due to non-current purchase price liabilities from the acquisition of Genesis Group
International Ltd. and the taking out of a long-term bank loan for the expansion of the
administration building.

Change in current assets, net

Payment for acquisition of shareholdings
Payment for investing in fixed assets
Other investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities
Free cash flow

49.7

-98.9

-150.3%

Free cash flow (before acquisitions)

56.5

-98.3

-157.5%

1.6%

-2.9%

-61.1

28.9

-0.7

7.3

Change in cash and cash equivalents

-12.1

-62.7

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the
financial year

338.8

401.5

-15.6%

Cash and cash equivalents at year-end

326.7

338.8

-3.6%

- in % of consolidated sales
Net cash used in / from financing activities
Effect on exchange rates on cash

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 111

Gross Cash Flow

F.17

Free Cash Flow (before Acquisitions)

F.18

€ million

€ million

350

150

300

100

250

50

200
0
150
-50

100

-100

50
0

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Gross cash flow improved by 36.0 % from € 134.5 million to € 182.9 million in the 2016
financial year due to higher pre-tax profit. Both the financial result and non-cash expenses
and income, which include in particular depreciation on property, plant and equipment,
amounted to € 64.1 million in 2016.
The strong performance of working capital management contributed significantly to the
improvement in cash flow from operating activities. In 2016, the total cash inflow from
operating activities was € 131.1 million compared to a cash outflow of € 37.1 million in the
previous year. The significant improvement is due in particular to the positive development of net working capital*. Whereas net working capital recorded a cash outflow of €
125.1 million in the previous year, the cash flow in 2016 was almost completely balanced
at € -0.2 million. By contrast, the cash outflow from tax, interest and dividend payments
increased by 10.9 % to € 51.6 million.
* Net working capital includes normal working capital line items plus current assets and
liabilities which are not normally part of the working capital calculation.
112 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

-150

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

The cash outflow from investing activities increased by 31.9 % from € 61.7 million to
€ 81.4 million in the reporting year. Payments for the acquisition of shareholdings in 2016
largely resulted from the acquisition of Genesis Group International Ltd. Investments in
property, plant and equipment in 2016 related mainly to investments in the Group’s own
retail stores, IT infrastructure and the expansion of the administration building in Herzogenaurach. These investments increased from € 79.0 million in the previous year to € 84.3
million. The decline in other investment activities related to lower cash inflows from asset
disposals.

The free cash flow before acquisitions is the balance of the cash inflows and outflows
from current operating and investing activities. In addition, an adjustment is made for
payments in connection with acquisitions. As a result of the increase in pre-tax profit and
the strong improvement in cash flow from net working capital, the free cash flow before
acquisitions rose by € 154.8 million from € -98.3 million to € 56.5 million. As a percentage
of consolidated sales, free cash flow before acquisitions was 1.4 % compared to -2.9 %
in the previous year.

Managing Director’s Statement regarding the Business
Development and the Overall Situation of the PUMA Group

The cash flow from financing activities in the financial year 2016 mainly consists of € 7.5
million in dividend payments to shareholders of PUMA SE, dividend payments to non-controlling interests of € 19.3 million, and the entering into and repayment of financial liabilities. In the 2016 financial year, PUMA repaid financial liabilities which had been taken on
by the majority shareholder Kering as part of financing activities in the previous year. This
resulted in an overall cash outflow from financing activities of € 61.1 million versus cash
inflows of € 28.9 million in the previous year.

We are very satisfied with the business development in the past financial year. PUMA
was able to fully meet the financial targets for 2016 and even slightly exceed them in
some cases. The growth in sales (currency-adjusted +10.2%) shows that we are on the
right track by increasing our brand heat and improving our product offering. The sales of
our products in the Group’s own retail stores as well as through our wholesale customers
also improved significantly. In terms of profitability, too, we were able to grow significantly
and, once again, improve our operating income, consolidated net earnings and earnings
per share after declining earnings in previous years. Operating income (EBIT) improved
considerably in the past financial year, thanks to a slightly improved gross profit margin
and an only moderate increase in other operating income and expenses (EBIT € 127.6
million, +32.6 %).

As of December 31, 2016, PUMA had cash and cash equivalents of € 326.7 million, a
slight decline of 3.6 % compared to the previous year (€ 338.8 million). The PUMA Group
also had credit facilities totaling € 487.6 million as of December 31, 2016 (previous year:
€ 401.7 million). Unutilized credit lines totaled € 433.1 million on the reporting date, compared to € 306.0 million the previous year.

With regard to the consolidated balance sheet, we believe that PUMA continues to have
an extremely solid capital base (equity of around € 1.7 billion, equity ratio of 62.3 %). In
addition, management’s strong focus on working capital contributed to the fact that working capital increased only slightly by 0.7 % compared to the previous year, despite the
significant increase in sales.
The improvement in profitability and the focus on working capital also led to a significant
improvement in cash flow during the past financial year. Free cash flow before acquisitions
rose from € -98.3 million in the previous year to € 56.5 million. Cash and cash equivalents
amounted to € 326.7 million as of the balance sheet date.
As a result, the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the PUMA Group
were solid at the time the combined management report was prepared. This enables us
to increase the dividend for the 2016 financial year and propose a dividend of € 0.75 per
share, an increase of € 0.25 per share, to the Annual General Meeting on April 12, 2017.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 113

C OMMENTS ON T H E G ERM AN G A AP FINANC IAL STATE M E N TS O F PU M A S E

The financial statements of PUMA SE are drawn up in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB).
PUMA SE is the parent company of the PUMA Group. The results of PUMA SE are influenced to a considerable extent by the subsidiaries and investments in other companies
held directly and indirectly. The business development of PUMA SE is fundamentally subject to the same risks and opportunities as the PUMA Group.
PUMA SE is responsible for the wholesale business of the DACH region, consisting of
the home market of Germany, Austria and Switzerland. PUMA SE is also responsible
for global distributors in the Motorsports category, pan-European sales for individual key
accounts, the sourcing of products from European production countries, and global licensing management. Furthermore, PUMA SE acts as a holding company within the PUMA
Group and, in this role, is responsible for a part of international product development,
marketing, the finance and operations, and for the strategic orientation of PUMA.

Results of Operations

31. 12. 2016
€ million
Net Sales

31. 12. 2015
%

€ million

% +/–%

540.3

100.0%

435.5*

100.0%

24.1%

57.4

10.6%

139.7*

32.1%

-58.9%

-154.5

-28.6%

-140.1

-32.2%

10.3%

Personnel expenses

-86.1

-15.9%

-78.7

-18.1%

9.4%

Depreciation

-14.1

-2.6%

-14.1

-3.2%

0.0%

Other operating expenses

-406.1

-75.2%

-430.8

-98.9%

-5.7%

Total expenses

-660.8

-122.3%

-663.8

-152.4%

-0.4%

Financial result

145.3

26.9%

196.2

45.1%

-25.9%

Income before Tax

82.2

15.2%

107.6

24.7%

-23.6%

Income tax

-3.5

-0.6%

-26.5

-6.1%

-86.8%

Net income

78.7

14.6%

81.1

18.6%

-3.0%

Other operating income
Cost of sales

*T
 he
277
ted.
of €
114 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Income Statrment (German GAAP, HGB)

T.4

figures in 2016 are based on the redefinition of the term „sales“ pursuant to Section
(1) HGB in accordance with BilRUG. The previous year‘s figures have not been adjusHowever, a corresponding application in 2015 would have resulted in a reclassification
42.5 million from other operating income to sales.

Sales (including license and commission income) increased by 24.1 % to € 540.3 million
in the 2016 financial year. The increase was due to higher sales in the DACH region and
higher licensing and commission income. Product sales in the DACH region increased by
15.8 % to € 150.6 million. Total PUMA SE product sales rose by 20.0 % to € 224.1 million.
Licensing and commission income included in sales rose by 14.6 % to € 281.5 million.
Other operating income amounted to € 57.4 million in 2016 (previous year: € 139.7 million). The decrease compared to the previous year was mainly related to lower currency
exchange gains and the aforementioned BilRUG reclassification.

Net Assets
Balance Sheet (German GAAP, HGB)

T.5

31. 12. 2016
€ million
Total Non-current Assets
Inventory

Total expenses, comprising material expenses, personnel expenses, depreciation/amortization and other operating expenses, was virtually unchanged compared to the previous
year (2016: total € 660.8 million; previous year: € 663.8 million). While other operating
expenses fell, material expenses rose due to higher sales and personnel expenses rose
due to the larger number of employees.
The financial result declined by 25.9 % compared to the previous year to € 145.3 million
since the previous year included income from profit transfer agreements totaling € 107.6
million related to a one-time capital increase at PUMA Sprint GmbH. Excluding this effect
in the previous year, the financial result improved in 2016, due mainly to the higher profit
transfer of PUMA International Trading GmbH.

Receivables and other current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Total Current Assets
Others
Total Assets
Equity
Accruals/Provision
Liabilities
Others

Profit before tax fell by 23.6 % from € 107.6 million to € 82.2 million. The decline in taxes
on income resulted partly from the adjustment of tax provisions after the end of the tax
audit for the years 2007 to 2011. Net income amounted to € 78.7 million compared to
€ 81.1 million in the previous year.
While the construction of our administration building and the acquisition of our shareholding
in Genesis Group International mainly increased our total non-current assets, valuation
allowances on and disposals of investments in subsidiaries led to a slight overall decline.
In total current assets, inventories rose by 15.9 % to € 50.2 million as a result of the
increase in business volume. In contrast, there was a decline in receivables from affiliated
companies.

Total Equity & Liabilities

31. 12. 2015
%

€ million

% +/–%

507.6

43.9%

516.7

43.8%

-1.7%

50.2

4.3%

43.3

3.7%

15.9%

523.0

45.2%

565.6

48.0%

-7.5%

73.1

6.3%

47.6

4.0%

53.7%

646.3

55.8%

656.4

55.7%

-1.5%

3.7

0.3%

5.9

0.5%

-37.8%

1,157.6

100.0%

1,179.0

100.0%

-1.8%

547.8

47.3%

476.6

40.4%

15.0%

63.1

5.4%

71.5

6.1%

-11.8%

544.5

47.0%

627.7

53.2%

-13.3%

2.3

0.2%

3.2

0.3%

-29.1%

1,157.6

100.0%

1,179.0

100.0%

-1.8%

On the liabilities side, equity rose by 15.0 % to € 547.8 million due to the net income
for the year. This represents an improvement in the equity ratio from 40.4 % to 47.3 %.
The decrease in provisions resulted in particular from the adjustment of tax provisions
after the end of the tax audit for the years 2007 to 2011. The decline in liabilities resulted
mainly from the repayment of financial liabilities that existed at Kering, the majority shareholder.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 115

Financial Position
T.6

Cash flow from financing activities in 2016 showed a cash inflow of € 109.8 million
(previous year: € 221.3 million), resulting from the decrease in liabilities to affiliated companies.

Cash Flow Statement (German GAAP, HGB)
2016

2015

€ million € million + / – %
Earnings before taxes

82.2

107.6

-23.6%

-131.2

-181.2

-27.6%

-49.0

-73.6

-33.4%

49.7

-37.0

Income tax and interest payments

-22.0

-22.0

0.0%

Cash flow from operating activities

-21.3

-132.5

-83.9%

Cash flow from investing activities

-63.0

-100.2

-37.2%

Free Cash Flow

-84.3

-232.7

-63.8%

Cash flow from financing activities

109.8

221.3

-50.4%

Change in cash and cash equivalents

25.5

-11.4

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year

47.6

59.0

-19.4%

Cash and cash equivalents at year-end

73.1

47.6

53.6%

Financial result and non-cash effected expenses and income
Gross cash flow
Net change in working capital

The positive development in working capital contributed significantly to the improvement
in cash flow from operating activities. While there was a cash outflow from operating
activities in the previous year of € 37.0 million, due to the net change in working capital,
there was a cash inflow of € 49.7 million in 2016. The cash outflow from investing activities decreased from € -100.2 million to € -63.0 million. The decrease was linked to a lower
capital requirement by our subsidiaries. This resulted overall in a significant improvement
in free cash flow from € -232.7 million in the previous year to € -84.3 million in 2016.

116 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

This led to an overall increase in cash and cash equivalents from € 47.6 million to € 73.1
million. In addition, various credit lines are available to PUMA SE for financing purposes.
As of December 31, 2016, the credit lines totaled € 309.0 million, of which € 19.0 million
was utilized.

Outlook
For the 2017 financial year, PUMA SE does not expect any significant changes compared
to 2016 in respect of net sales and income before taxes.

Relationships with Affiliated Companies
At the end of the dependent company report of the Managing Directors for the 2016 financial year, the following statement was made: “Under the circumstances which were known
to the Managing Directors at the time when the transactions listed in the report on relationships with affiliated companies were made, PUMA SE received an appropriate consideration in all cases. There were no reportable measures taken or not taken in the reporting
period”.

COMPENSATION REPO RT
The Managing Directors
The Managing Directors’ compensation,
which is determined by the Administrative
Board, consists of non-performance-based
and performance-based components. The
non-performance-based components consist of a fixed salary and non-cash compensation, whereas the performance-based
components consist of bonuses and components with a long-term incentive effect.
Along with job assignments and performance of each individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the total
remuneration are the economic situation,
long-term strategic planning and related
targets, the long-term durability of targeted
results and the Company‘s long-term prospects.
A fixed salary is paid out monthly as
non-performance-based basic compensation. In addition, the Managing Directors
receive non-cash compensation, such as
company cars, pension contributions and
insurance premiums. In principle, these
benefits are granted to all Managing Directors in an equal manner and are included in
the non-performance-based compensation.

The bonus component of performance-related compensation is mainly based on the
PUMA Group‘s operating income (EBIT)
and free cash flow and is staggered according to the degree to which targets are met.
In addition, qualitative individual goals are
set. An upper limit is also agreed.
The previous performance-based compensation component with a long-term incentive effect (stock appreciation rights) as
part of a stock option plan was not granted
beyond the 2012 financial year. The existing options can be exercised until the end
of April 2017 if the exercise criteria are met.
Details on the parameters used for the
respective programs are provided in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Pro-rata provisions totaling € 2.1 million
(€ 1.9 million) were set up for the compensation program (virtual shares/monetary
units) with long-term incentives (from the
years 2013 to 2016) for Managing Directors.
Under the performance-based program,
70% of the compensation will be based on
the medium-term performance of PUMA
SE’s share and 30% will be based on the

medium-term performance of Kering SA’s
share in relation to benchmark companies.
Further information on this program can
be found in Section 19 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fixed compensation for the three Managing Directors amounted to € 1.9 million
in the financial year (previous year: € 1.9
million) and variable bonuses came to € 2.5
million (previous year: € 1.5 million). Noncash compensation totaled € 0.1 million
(previous year: € 0.1 million).
The Managing Directors receive pension
benefits, for which the Company took out a
pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital that is already
financed through contributions to the pension
liability insurance is deemed to be vested.
During the financial year, € 0.4 million was
allocated for Managing Directors (previous
year: € 0.4 million). The present value of the
pension benefits granted to active Managing Directors in the amount of € 2.6 million
as of December 31, 2016 (previous year: €
1.7 million) was offset against the pledged
asset value of the pension liability insurance policy, which was of an equal amount.
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 117

Pension obligations to former members
of the Board of Management, their widows and Managing Directors amounted to
€ 13.6 million (previous year: € 13.3 million)
and are accordingly recognized as liabilities under pension provisions, unless they
are offset against asset values of an equal
amount. Pensions paid totaled € 0.2 million
(previous year: € 0.2 million).
In 2016, a long-term incentive program,
Game Changer 2019, was introduced
for senior management and strategically
important employees that will allow this
group of employees to participate in PUMA
SE’s earnings over the medium term. € 1.2
million has been set aside for this program.
An additional € 1.0 million was set aside for
the predecessor program Game Changer
2018 (Tranche 2) (previous year: € 1.0 million) and an additional € 0.7 million was set
aside for the program Game Changer 2017
(Tranche 3) (previous year: € 0.8 million) in
the reporting period. Further information
on this program can be found in Section 19
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

118 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Administrative Board
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board has at least
three members; it currently consists of nine
members. The compensation of the Administrative Board is comprised of a fixed and
a performance-based component. The total
fixed compensation amounted to € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative
Board receives a fixed annual compensation in the amount of € 25,000. The fixed
compensation is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of € 25,000 for
the Chairman of the Administrative Board,
€ 12,500 for the Vice-Chairman of the
Administrative Board, € 10,000 for each
committee chairman (excluding the Nominating Committee) and € 5,000 for each
committee member (excluding the Nominating Committee).

In addition, each Administrative Board
member receives performance-based compensation equal to € 20.00 for each € 0.01
by which the earnings per share figure
exceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per
share. The performance-based compensation amounts to a maximum of € 10,000 per
year. The Chairman of the Administrative
Board receives twice this amount (maximum
€ 20,000) and the Vice Chairman receives
one and a half times this amount (maximum
€ 15,000) in compensation. Since earnings
per share are below the minimum amount
in the financial year, no performance-based
compensation will be paid.

R I SK AND OPPORTUNIT Y M ANAG EM ENT
Entrepreneurial activities are always associated with uncertainties and risks. This is
particularly true for the fast-paced sports
and lifestyle industry in which PUMA operates. Due to the global nature of business in
this industry, PUMA is constantly exposed
to risks and opportunities that must be
identified and managed. This necessitates
effective risk and opportunity management
which can be used to systematically monitor risks and opportunities. A risk is one
or more future events with unplanned,
negative consequences for the planning
of PUMA, up to the risk of a threat to the
continued existence of the company. Similarly, an opportunity is defined as one or
more events with unplanned, positive consequences for PUMA.
The Managing Directors of PUMA SE
have overall responsibility for the risk and
opportunity management system. The
„Risk & Compliance Committee“ (hereinafter „RCC“) was therefore established as
an official body and is responsible for the
design of the risk and opportunity management system, as well as being the first
addressee of risk reporting. The task of
operational coordination and implementation of the Group-wide risk and opportunity

management system has been transferred
to the Group Internal Audit & GRC (Governance, Risk & Compliance) department.
Structured individual interviews (risk interviews) are conducted regularly (currently twice annually) with executives at the
management level below the Managing
Directors (risk owners). The objective of
these interviews is to systematically identify, validate and assess risks. The Group
Internal Audit & GRC department provides
a uniform framework for the assessment
of risks. A defined scale is used to assess
the probability of occurrence and potential
level of damage and to control the risk in
question. The risks identified and assessed
during the risk interviews are presented to
the RCC in an aggregated form (the risk
heat map).
The RCC consists of a fixed group of executives from various corporate divisions,
including the Managing Directors. The
position of RCC Chairman is always filled
by a Managing Director. The results of the
RCC meetings are reported to the Audit
Committee (sub-committee of the Administrative Board) by the Chair of the RCC and
the Head of the Group Internal Audit & GRC
department. An integrated GRC tool used

to document the risk management processes is available to the Group Internal Audit
& GRC department and to the risk owners.
PUMA also has a comprehensive reporting
and controlling system, which is an essential component of its risk management
approach. PUMA’s reporting and controlling system is based on monthly financial reporting as well as the review and
plausibility reports on reported information
issued by Controlling.
Managers analyze opportunities and risks
in annual planning discussions around the
world, setting targets and defining courses
of action based on the results. The comprehensive reporting system continuously
monitors and generates reports on compliance with the set targets. This enables
PUMA to promptly identify any deviations
or negative developments, and to initiate
any necessary countermeasures in a timely manner.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 119

Risk and Opportunity
Categories
Macroeconomic Developments
As an international company, PUMA is
exposed to global macroeconomic developments. Economic developments in key
sales markets can have a direct impact
on consumer behavior, which may have a
positive or negative impact on sales and
earnings. For example, political changes,
exchange rate fluctuations, changes to the
legal framework, and social developments
may have an effect. The current political
developments may have a noticeable effect
on PUMA‘s sales and operations and are
therefore being closely monitored.
Overall, PUMA manages these challenges with geographic diversification and
the development of alternative scenarios for the possible occurrence of serious
events.

Brand Image
Brand image and brand heat are extremely
important for PUMA, as consumer behavior can have a negative effect on the brand
as well as a positive one. PUMA is aware
of the significant risks involved in this and
therefore strives to work with appropriate
brand ambassadors. In 2016, the „DO
120 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

YOU“ campaign and the cooperation with
female brand ambassadors such as Rihanna, Kylie Jenner and Cara Delevingne
formed a focal point. The main objective
was to address female customers directly
and to make the PUMA brand more attractive to women. The improved range of products for women (e.g. Fierce, FENTY PUMA
by Rihanna) increased brand heat in 2016.
PUMA came up with a new mission statement in 2013 in order to ensure PUMA’s
sporting roots are emphasized even further
and to sharpen its perception as a sports
brand. „To be the Fastest Sports Brand in
the world“. Our cooperation with Usain Bolt
and our commitment to Formula 1 support
this mission statement

Counterfeit Products
Counterfeit products can cause considerable damage to consumer confidence in
the brand and can devalue PUMA‘s brand
image. For this reason, PUMA has made
fighting brand piracy a top priority. PUMA’s
intellectual property team does more than
just protect a strong global intellectual
property portfolio of trademarks, designs
and patents. PUMA also works closely
with customs and other law-enforcement
authorities around the world and provides
input regarding the implementation of
effective laws to protect intellectual property.

Sourcing Department
Most products are produced in the emerging markets of Asia. Production in these
countries can be associated with substantial risks for PUMA. For instance, certain risks may result from factors such as
fluctuations in exchange rates, changes
in taxes and customs duties, trade restrictions, natural disasters and political instability, as well as the international threat of
terrorism. Risks may also result from an
overdependence on individual manufacturers.
The portfolio is regularly reviewed and
adjusted to avoid creating a dependence
on individual suppliers and sourcing markets. In order to ensure that the necessary
future production capacity will be available,
framework agreements are generally concluded for extended periods.
There is also the risk of a breach of ILO
(International Labor Organization) core
labor standards by our suppliers. The core
task of the PUMA Sustainability Team is
thus to verify compliance with the applicable standards in regular audits of suppliers.

Product and Market
Environment
Recognizing and taking advantage of relevant consumer trends early on is key to

countering the risk posed by market-specific product influences, in particular the risk
of substitutability in the competitive sport
and lifestyle market. Only those companies
that identify these trends at an early stage
will be able to gain an edge over their competitors.
PUMA‘s targeted investments in product
design and development ensures that the
characteristic PUMA design of the entire
product range is consistent with the overall brand strategy (Forever Faster), thereby
creating a unique level of brand recognition.

Retail
PUMA makes use of various distribution
channels in order to minimize dependence
on any single channel. The expansion of
the Company‘s own retail stores is also
intended to ensure that PUMA products
are presented in an exclusive brand environment preferred by PUMA.
Distribution through its own retail stores
is linked to various risks for PUMA,
including investments in expansion and
equipping stores, higher fixed costs
compared to distribution through wholesalers as well as lease agreements with
long-term lease obligations, all of which
can have a negative impact on profitability if business declines. On the other hand,

extending the value chain can deliver
higher gross margins and provide better control over distribution. In addition,
PUMA-owned retail stores can deliver
PUMA brand experience directly to the end
customer.
To avoid risks and take advantage of opportunities, PUMA performs in-depth location
and profitability analyses before making
investment decisions. The Company’s
strong controlling and key performance
indicator system enables it to detect negative trends early on and take the countermeasures required to manage individual
stores accordingly.

Reporting in the Media
A negative media report about PUMA, such
as a product recall, infringement of laws, or
internal or external requirements, can also
do significant damage to the brand and ultimately result in the loss of sales and profit,
regardless of whether these events actually happened or were just assumed by the
media. PUMA protects itself against this
risk through careful public relations work,
which is managed from the Group’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany. In
addition, PUMA regularly seeks an open
dialog with key external stakeholders (e.g.
NGOs) and this has been institutionalized
in the „Talks at Banz“, which have been
held annually since 2003.

Organizational Challenges
The organizational structure of PUMA
with the Group‘s headquarters in
Herzogenaurach, a central sourcing
organization in Hong Kong and local distribution companies around the world,
gives the Group a global orientation. This
results in a risk for PUMA that the flow of
goods and information are not sufficiently supported by modern infrastructure
and information technology (IT). For this
reason, existing business processes must
be continually optimized and adapted. This
is done systematically through targeted
optimization projects, which are planned
and managed centrally by a staff member.
To accomplish this objective, PUMA continued to optimize its organizational structure and setup in 2016. The optimization
of the IT infrastructure remained a key
topic. In addition, the central management
of global eCommerce activities has been
relocated from Boston to Herzogenaurach
and is now being carried out at the Group‘s
headquarters.

Personnel Department
PUMA’s human resources strategy seeks
to ensure the long-term sustainability of
this successful philosophy. To achieve this
goal, a control process is in place to detect
and assess human-resource risks. Accord-

ingly, special attention has been paid to
managing talent, identifying key positions
and high-potential individuals, and optimizing talent placement and succession
planning. PUMA has instituted additional
national and global regulations and guidelines to ensure compliance with legal provisions.
PUMA will continue to make targeted
investments in the human-resource needs
of particular functions or regions in order
to meet the future requirement of its corporate strategy.

Legal risks
As an international company, the PUMA
Group is exposed to various legal risks.
These include contractual risks or risks
that a third party could assert claims and
litigation for infringement of its trademark
rights, patent rights or other rights. The
continuous monitoring of our contractual
obligations and the integration of internal
and external legal experts in contractual
matters should ensure that any legal risks
are avoided.

Compliance risks
PUMA is exposed to the risk that employees violate laws, directives and company
standards (compliance violations). These
risks, such as theft, fraud, breach of trust,

embezzlement and corruption, as well as
deliberate misrepresentations in financial
reporting, may lead to significant monetary
and reputational damage. PUMA therefore makes use of various tools to manage
these risks. They include an integrated
compliance management system, the internal control system, Group controlling and
the internal audit department. The employees of PUMA also have access to an integrity hotline for reporting unethical behavior.

Currency Risks
As an international company, PUMA is subject to currency risks resulting from the disparity between the respective amounts of
currency used on the purchasing and sales
sides and from exchange-rate fluctuations.
PUMA’s biggest procurement market is
Asia, where most payments are settled in
USD, while sales of the PUMA Group are
mostly invoiced in other currencies. PUMA
manages currency risk in accordance with
internal guidelines. Currency forward contracts are used to hedge existing and future
financial liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies.
To hedge signed or pending contracts
against currency risk, PUMA only concludes currency forward contracts on customary market terms with reputable international financial institutions and Kering
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 121

Finance SNC. As of the end of 2016, the
net requirements for the 2017 planning
period were adequately hedged against
currency effects.
Foreign exchange risks may also arise from
intra-group loans granted for financing purposes. Currency swaps and currency forward transactions are used to hedge currency risks when converting intra-Group
loans denominated in foreign currencies
into the functional currencies of the Group
companies.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7
requires sensitivity analyses that show the
effects of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables on earnings and equity.
The periodic effects are determined by
relating the hypothetical changes caused
by the risk variables to the balance of the
financial instruments held as of the balance
sheet date. The underlying assumption is
that the balance as of the balance sheet
date is representative for the entire year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise
on account of financial instruments being
denominated in a currency that is not the
functional currency and is monetary in
nature. Differences resulting from the conversion of the individual financial statements to the Group currency are not taken
into account. All non-functional currencies
in which PUMA employs financial instru122 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

ments are generally considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on
the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial
instruments (cash and cash equivalents,
receivables, interest-bearing debt, liabilities
from finance leases, non-interest-bearing
liabilities) are either denominated directly in
the functional currency or transferred into
the functional currency through the use of
currency forward contracts.
Currency forward contracts used to hedge
against payment fluctuations caused by
exchange rates are part of an effective
cash-flow hedging relationship pursuant to
IAS 39. Changes in the exchange rate of the
currencies underlying these contracts have
an effect on the hedge reserve in equity and
the fair value of these hedging contracts.
If, as of December 31, 2016, the USD had
appreciated (devalued) against all other
currencies by 10%, the hedge reserve in
equity and the fair value of the hedging
contracts would have been € 106.2 million
higher (lower) (December 31, 2015: € 105.5
million higher (lower)).

Counterparty Risks
Because of its business activities, PUMA
is exposed to default risk that is managed

by continuously monitoring outstanding
receivables and recognizing impairment
losses, where appropriate.
The default risk is limited by credit insurance
and the maximum default risk is reflected by
the carrying amounts of the financial assets
recognized on the balance sheet.

Liquidity Risk
A liquidity reserve in the form of cash or
cash equivalents as well as confirmed
credit lines is maintained in order to ensure
the Company’s solvency at all times, its
financial flexibility, and the presence of a
strategic liquidity buffer. Confirmed credit
lines are made available until further notice
or with a maturity period of less than one
year.
PUMA continually analyzes short-term
capital requirements through rolling cash
flow planning at the level of the individual
companies in coordination with the central
Treasury. Thanks to the adequate liquidity
of the PUMA Group and a central financing approach, any capital requirements are
covered by internal financing, where and
whenever possible. The central Treasury
conducts medium-term liquidity planning
as part of its budget process.

Interest-Rate Risks
At PUMA, changes in interest rates do not
have a significant impact on interest rate
sensitivity and therefore do not require the
use of interest rate hedging instruments.

Summary
PUMA’s risk management system allows
the Company to fulfill the legal requirements pertaining to corporate control and
transparency. The Management believes
that, in an overall evaluation of the Company’s risk situation, risk is limited and manageable. Based on a very solid balance
sheet structure, in particular the high equity ratio, and the positive business outlook,
management does not foresee any substantial threat to the continued viability of
the PUMA Group.

COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 123

Main Features of the Internal Control and Risk Management
System as it relates to the Group’s Accounting Process
PUMA SE’s Managing Directors are responsible for the preparation and accuracy of
the Consolidated Financial Statements and
the Group Management Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards that apply
in the EU, the requirements of the German
Commercial Code (HGB), and the German
SE Implementation Act (SEAG). Certain
disclosures and amounts are based on current estimates by management.
The Company’s Managing Directors are
responsible for maintaining and regularly
monitoring a suitable internal control and
risk management system covering the consolidated financial statements and the disclosures in the Group management report.
This control and risk management system is designed to ensure the compliance
and reliability of the internal and external
accounting records, the presentation and
accuracy of the consolidated financial
statements, and the Group management
report and the disclosures contained therein. It is based on a series of process-integrated monitoring steps and encompasses
the measures necessary to accomplish
these, internal instructions, organizational
and authorization guidelines, the PUMA
124 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Code of Ethics, a clear separation of functions within the Group and the dual-control principle. The adequacy and operating
effectiveness of these measures are regularly reviewed by the Group Internal Audit &
GRC department.
For monthly financial reporting and consolidation, PUMA has a Group-wide reporting and controlling system that allows it to
detect deviations from projected figures
and accounting irregularities regularly and
promptly and, where necessary, to take
countermeasures.
The risk management system can regularly, as well as on an ad-hoc basis, identify events that could affect the Company’s
economic performance and its accounting
process so that it can analyze and evaluate
the resulting risks and take the necessary
actions to counter them.
In preparing the consolidated financial
statements and the Group management
report, it is also sometimes necessary to
make assumptions and estimates that are
based on the information available on the
balance sheet date and which will affect
the reported amounts and recognition of
assets and liabilities, income and expens-

es, contingent liabilities, and other data
that must be reported, as well as how these
are classified.
The Administrative Board’s Audit Committee meets regularly with the independent,
statutory auditors, the Managing Directors,
and the Group Internal Audit & GRC department to discuss the results of the statutory
audits of the financial statements and of
the audit review with regard to the internal
control and risk management system as it
relates to the accounting process. During
the meeting held to discuss the annual
financial statements, the statutory auditor
reports to the Administrative Board on the
results of the audit of the annual financial
statements and the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
In addition to the risk and opportunity
management described, the Group Internal Audit & GRC department carries out
internal control self-assessments (ICSA)
at the process level for all essential business processes. In these assessments,
process owners evaluate the existing control framework on the basis of best-practice
standards. The objective is to continuously
improve the internal control system and to
identify specific risks at the process level.

The results of the ICSA are reported to the
Audit Committee and are used specifically
by the Group Internal Audit & GRC department in risk-oriented audit planning.

SUP P L EMENTAL REPORT AND OU T LO OK
Supplemental Report
There were no events after the balance
sheet date which may have a material effect on the net assets, financial position
and results of operations.

Outlook
Global Economic Situation
In its winter 2016 forecast, the Kiel Institute
for the World Economy (IfW) assumes that
global gross domestic product (GDP) will
grow by 3.5 % in 2017. For 2018, the IfW
expects a rise in global production of 3.6%.
The upturn in the advanced economies is
expected to continue at a slightly increased
pace in the next two years. The main drivers of this growth are general continued
expansionary monetary policy, increased
fiscal policy incentives and progressively
rising wages. While the United States will
probably achieve GDP growth of 2.5 %
(2017) and 2.7 % (2018), which is above
average for this group of countries, the figures for the Euro zone are expected to be
1.7 % in both years.
Expansion in the emerging markets is
expected to pick up progressively in the
next two years, but no great momentum
will be generated, given that commodity
prices will continue to be relatively low and

structural problems are still unsolved in
many cases.
In the view of IfW, risks to global economic
development are primarily related to political uncertainty. The impact the change in
US President will have on the economic climate is still hard to assess at the moment.
Several major European countries will hold
elections in 2017. It is also unclear how
Brexit will change the economic framework
in Europe.

Sporting goods industry
We expect continued stable growth in the
global sporting goods industry in 2017,
provided it is not significantly impacted
negatively by macroeconomic development. Our assumption is that the relevant
influences and trends of the last few years
will continue. Rising wages will probably
further stimulate private consumption globally. Increasing awareness of health and
the resulting increase in sports activity by
consumers should also lead to a rise in
demand for sporting goods. Improvements
in sports infrastructure and government
initiatives to promote sport, for example
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 125

in China, should also stimulate growth in
the sporting goods industry. Major sports
events in 2017, such as the Africa Cup
of Nations soccer tournament in Gabon
and the IAAF World Athletics Championships in London, are also expected to
help support growth in the sporting goods
industry.

Outlook 2017
Based on the development in 2016, where
we saw ongoing sales growth and an
improvement of profitability, we are confident that PUMA can continue the momentum that it has gained as a brand. In 2017,
we will further invest in marketing and continue our “Forever Faster”-brand communication to increase our brand heat by leveraging our ambassadors and to position
PUMA as the Fastest Sports Brand in the
World. Our global marketing activities will
again be centered around athletes, including the World’s Fastest Man and sports icon
Usain Bolt, star strikers like Sergio Agüero
and Antoine Griezmann, Golfstar Rickie
Fowler, Arsenal Football Club, Borussia
Dortmund as well as global entertainment
assets like multi-platinum recording artist,
designer and entrepreneur Rihanna, Kylie
Jenner, Cara Delevingne and the R&B star
and style icon The Weeknd.
We will continue to work very closely with
our retail partners. With our improved prod126 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

uct offering including recently launched
styles such as the Fierce, Basket Heart,
IGNITE Dual and IGNITE Evoknit as well
as our FENTY collection we will continue
to work hard to get more of the right PUMA
products on the shelves of our retail partners. In combination with further investments in our own retail and eCommerce
business we will support our direct to consumer business. This should enable us to
attract new customers and to increase our
market share in most geographies as well
as to improve our sell-through across all
product categories.
For the full year 2017 we expect that currency-adjusted net sales will increase at
a high single-digit rate. The gross profit
margin is forecasted to improve to approximately 46.0% (2016: 45.7%). Operating
expenses (OPEX) are expected to increase
at a mid to high single-digit rate, as PUMA
will continue to invest in marketing, in the
modernization and expansion of the owned
and operated retail store network and in
IT-infrastructure. At the same time, management will continue to place a strong
emphasis on strict control of other operating costs.
At the current exchange rate levels,
PUMA’s management expects that the
operating result (EBIT) will improve significantly in 2017, thanks to operating leverage, as sales will increase stronger than

OPEX, combined with a slightly improved
gross profit margin. EBIT for the full year
2017 is therefore expected to come in
between € 170 million and € 190 million.
Net earnings will also continue to improve
significantly in 2017.
PUMA’s management is optimistic that
2017 is another important year with great
opportunities and that PUMA is well positioned to carry the brand’s positive momentum into 2017 and beyond.

Investments
Investments totaling around € 90 million
are planned for 2017. The major portion will
go to investments in infrastructure to create
the operative preconditions for the planned
long-term growth, as well as to expanding
our core markets and to selective investments in retail stores.

Foundation for Long-Term
Growth
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board have established the longterm strategic priorities. Action plans are
being implemented in a targeted, value-oriented manner. PUMA’s management
believes that the “Forever Faster”-corporate strategy will lay the foundations
for positive medium and long-term
development.

I N FORMATION CONC ERNING TAKEOV ERS

The following information, valid December
31, 2016, is presented in accordance with
Art. 9 p. 1 c) (ii) of the SE Regulation and
Section 22 p. 6 of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in conjunction with
Sections 289 [4], 315 [4] HGB. Details
under Sections 289 [4], 315 [4] HGB which
do not apply at PUMA SE are not mentioned.

Sections 289 [4][1][1], 315 [4][1][1]
HGB
On the balance sheet date, subscribed capital totaled € 38,611,107.84 and was divided
into 15,082,464 no-par-value shares. As of
the balance sheet date, the Company held
142,551 treasury shares.

Sections 289 [4][1][3], 315 [4][1][3]
HGB
As of December 31, 2016 there was one
shareholding in PUMA SE that exceeded
10 % of the voting rights. It was held by
Messrs. François-Henri Joseph Pinault
and François Jean-Henri Pinault via sev-

eral companies controlled by them (ranked
by size of stake held by Messrs. Pinault:
Financière Pinault S.C.A., Artémis S.A.,
Kering S.A. and SAPARDIS SE). On
August 3, 2011, the share of voting rights
allotted to Messrs. Pinault and to the aforementioned companies exceeded the 75 %
threshold and on that date stood at 75.12
%. 1.15 % of the share of voting rights concerned treasury shares of PUMA SE. The
list of shareholdings of Kering S.A. on page
298 in the Reference Document for 2015
shows that Kering S.A. has an 85.81 %
share of the voting rights in PUMA SE.

Sections 289 [4][1][6], 315 [4][1][6]
HGB
Regarding the appointment and dismissal
of Managing Directors, reference is made
to the applicable statutory requirements of
Section 40 of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG). Moreover, Section 13[1]
of PUMA SE’s Articles of Association stipulates that the Administrative Board shall
appoint one or several Managing Director(s). It may appoint one of these Man-

aging Directors as Chief Executive Officer
and one or two as Deputy Chief Executive Officers. Pursuant to Section 13[4] of
PUMA SE’s Articles of Association, Managing Directors may be dismissed only for
good cause, within the meaning of Section
84[3] of the German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG) or if the employment agreement
is terminated, in which case a resolution
must be adopted by the Administrative
Board with a simple majority of the votes
cast. Pursuant to Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE
Regulation (SE-VO), the requirements for
changing the Articles of Association are
governed by Sections 133 and 179 of the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The
Administrative Board is authorized to make
changes to the Articles of Association that
affect only the text (Article 9(3) of PUMA
SE’s Articles of Association).

Sections 289 [4][1][7], 315 [4][1][7]
HGB
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated April 24, 2012,
the Administrative Board is authorized to
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 127

increase the share capital by April 23, 2017
as follows:
1. By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of
up to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer
shares on one or more occasions with
a pro-rata amount of the share capital of
€ 2.56 per share in exchange for cash
contributions. The new shares can also
be acquired by one or several banks as
determined by the Administrative Board,
subject to the obligation to offer these to
the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). The shareholders are basically entitled to a subscription
right. The Administrative Board is, however, authorized to exclude the subscription rights of shareholders to avoid fractional shares. The Administrative Board
is authorized to determine the additional
rights of shares and the conditions of the
share issue (Authorized Capital I).
2 .By issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up
to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata
amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions
or contributions in kind. The new shares
can also be acquired by one or several
banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the obligation
to offer these to the shareholders for
subscription (indirect subscription right).
The Administrative Board is authorized
128 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

to exclude the subscription rights of
shareholders in part or in whole, once or
several times
u to avoid fractional shares;
u in the event of capital increases
against contributions in kind to carry
out mergers or for the acquisition of
companies, shareholdings in companies or parts of companies;
u for capital increases against cash
contributions, provided the amount
of the share capital attributable to the
new shares does not exceed ten percent of the share capital and the issue amount for the new shares is not
significantly below the market price of
already listed shares, Section 186(3)
(4) AktG. The ten percent limit of the
share capital is valid for the date of
the resolution of the Annual General
Meeting on this authorization and on
the exercise date of the authorization.
The sale of treasury shares, which
are sold during the term of Authorized
Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights of shareholders in application of section 186(3)(4) AktG, and the
issuance of shares to service options
or convertible bonds issued during
the term of Authorized Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights of
shareholders in application of section

186(3)(4) AktG, shall be counted toward the ten percent limit of the share
capital.
The Administrative Board is authorized to
determine the additional rights of shares
and the conditions of the share issue
(Authorized Capital II).
The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015 authorized the
company to purchase treasury shares up to
a value of ten percent of the share capital
until May 5, 2020.

Section 289 [4][1][8], 315 [4][1][8]
HGB
Material financing agreements of PUMA
SE with its creditors contain the standard
change-of-control clauses. In the case of
change of control the creditor is entitled to
termination and early calling-in of any outstanding amounts.
For more details, please refer to the relevant disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Section 18).

C OR POR ATE G OVERN ANC E REP O RT
I NCLUDING TH E STAT EM ENT O N C O RP OR AT E GOVE R N A N C E I N
ACCORDANCE W IT H SECT ION 2 89 A AND SECT I O N 3 15 ( 5 ) HGB
Effective implementation of the principles of
corporate governance is an important aspect
of PUMA‘s corporate policy. Transparent
and responsible corporate governance is a
key prerequisite for achieving corporate targets and for increasing the Company’s value in a sustainable manner. The Administrative Board and the Managing Directors work
closely with each other in the interests of the
entire Company to ensure that the Company is managed and monitored in an efficient
way that will ensure sustainable added value through good corporate governance. In
the following the Administrative Board and
the Managing Directors report on the corporate governance at PUMA SE in accordance with Section 3.10 of the German
Corporate Governance Code. This section
also includes the Statement of Compliance
in accordance with Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE
Regulation (SE-VO) and Section 22(6) of the
German SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in
conjunction with Section 289a and Section
315(5) HGB.

Under Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation
(SE-VO) and Section 22(6) of the German
SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in conjunction with § 161 AktG the Administrative
Board of a listed German SE is required
to issue a statement at least once a year
stating whether the German Corporate
Governance Code has been and is being
observed and which of the Code’s recommendations have not been or are not being
applied and why. The Administrative Board
of PUMA SE issued the following statement of compliance on November 9, 2016:

Statement of Compliance
pursuant to Section 161 AktG
for 2016
Pursuant to Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO) and Section 22(6) of the German SE Implementation Act (SEAG), in conjunction with Section 161 AktG, PUMA SE‘s
Administrative Board declares that PUMA
SE has been and is in compliance with rec-

ommendations issued by the „Government
Commission on the German Corporate
Governance Code“ (the „Code“) (in the versions dated June 24, 2014 and May 5, 2015)
since the last Statement of Compliance of
November 2014 in consideration of the particulars of PUMA SE‘s single-tier system
described under item 1 with the exceptions
mentioned under item 2, and where it is not
in compliance, explains why not.

1st P
 articulars of the Single-Tier
Corporate Governance System
According to Art. 43 – 45 SE-VO, in
conjunction with Sections 20 et seqq.
SEAG, under the single-tier system,
management of the SE is the responsibility of a single company organ, the
Administrative Board (see Para. 7 of the
Code’s Preamble). The Administrative
Board manages the Company, determines the Company’s basic business
strategies and monitors the implemen-

tation of said strategies by the Managing Directors. The Managing Directors
manage the Company’s business, represent the Company in and out of court,
and are bound by instructions from the
Administrative Board.
Basically, PUMA SE takes those parts
of the Code that apply to the Supervisory Board and applies them to the
Administrative Board and takes those
parts of the Code that used to apply to
the Board of Management and applies
them to its Managing Directors. The following exceptions apply with respect to
the legal framework for the single-tier
system:
uIn derogation of No. 2.2.1 p.1 of
the Code, the Administrative Board
must submit the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial
statements to the Annual General
Meeting (Section 48(2) p. 2 SEAG).
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 129

uIn derogation of Nos. 2.3.1 p. 1 and
3.7(3) of the Code, the Administrative
Board is responsible for convening the
Annual General Meeting (Sections 48
and 22(2) SEAG).
u
The duties of the Board of Management
listed in Sections 4.1.1 (Corporate Governance), and 4.1.2 in conjunction with
3.2 half-sentence 1 (Development of
the Company’s Strategic Orientation)
of the Code are the responsibility of the
Administrative Board (Section 22(1)
SEAG).
u
The powers of the Board of Management
governed by Sections 2.3.2(2) (Proxy
Bound by Instructions), 3.7(1) (Statement
on a Takeover Bid) and 3.7(2) (Conduct
during a Takeover Bid), as well as 3.10
(Corporate Governance Report), 4.1.3
(Compliance) and 4.1.4 (Risk Management and Controlling) of the Code are
the responsibility of PUMA SE‘s Administrative Board (Section 22(6) SEAG).
u
In derogation of Nos. 5.1.2(2)(1 and 2)
of the Code, Managing Directors, unlike
members of the Board of Management,
are not subject to a fixed, maximum
term of appointment (Section 40(1)(1)
SEAG).
u
In derogation of Nos. 5.4.2 p. 2 and
5.4.4 of the Code, members of the
130 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

Administrative Board may be appointed
as Managing Directors, provided that
the majority of the Administrative Board
continues to consist of non-executive
Managing Directors (Section 40(1) p. 2
SEAG).

2nd E
 xceptions to the Code’s recommendations
u
In derogation of No. 3.8(3) of the Code,
members of the Administrative Board
are provided with D&O insurance with
no deductible. The Administrative
Board feels that it can dispense with a
deductible for members of the Administrative Board, because the D&O insurance is group insurance for people in
Germany and abroad, and a deductible
is fairly unusual abroad.
u
In derogation of No. 4.2.3(2)(6) of the
Code, the compensation of the Managing Directors does not show the maximum amount limits in total or their variable compensation components. The
employment contracts of the Managing
Directors were concluded in accordance with the current version of the
Code and are deemed to be proper and
correct by PUMA SE.
u
In derogation of No. 4.2.3(5) of the
Code, no limits on severance payments for premature termination as a

Managing Director due to a change of
control have been agreed to, because
an agreement drawn up in advance
would not be able to take into account
the specific situation that gave rise to
a premature termination or the other
circumstances of the individual case of
termination.
u
In accordance with the authorization by
the Annual General Meeting on May 7,
2013, pursuant to Section 286(5) HGB,
the Company shall not publish the
amounts of compensation for individual
Managing Directors until the authorization expires (Sections 4.2.4 and 4.2.5
of the Code). The Managing Directors
shall adhere to the authorization when
they prepare the annual financial statements. Based on the authorization of
the Annual General Meeting, and in
derogation of No. 4.2.5(3) of the Code,
the information stated in this Section
regarding the compensation of the
Managing Directors is not included in
the Compensation Report.
u
In derogation of No. 5.4.6(2) page 2 of
the Code, members of the Administrative Board receive performance-based
compensation that is not linked to the
sustainable success of the Company.
The compensation was authorized by
the Annual General Meeting on April
14, 2011; it is stipulated in the Articles

of Association and is deemed to be
proper and correct by PUMA SE.
u
Deviating from Section 5.4.6(3) of the
Code, the compensation of the Administrative Board members is not shown
individually. In the opinion of PUMA
SE, this additional information is not
relevant to the capital market, as the
respective remuneration regulations
are in the public domain in the Articles
of Association.

Herzogenaurach, November 9, 2016
PUMA SE

On behalf of the Administrative Board

Jean-François Palus

The Statement of Compliance is available at any
time on the Company’s website at
http://about.puma.com/de/investor-relations/
corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/

Relevant disclosures of corporate governance practices that
are applied beyond the regulatory
requirements
In order to fulfill our responsibility as
a global sporting goods manufacturer,
PUMA has developed guidelines on environmental management and on compliance with workplace and social standards
(see
http://about.PUMA.com
under “SUSTAINABILITY”). The PUMA
Code of Conduct and the PUMA Code of
Ethics
(see
http://about.PUMA.com
under „SUSTAINABILITY“) prescribe ethical and environmental standards with
which both employees in the entire PUMA
Group and suppliers are required to comply. The PUMA Code of Conduct was
revised in 2016 and explicitly addresses
PUMA‘s obligation and commitment in
respect of human rights and combating
corruption.
Compliance with laws and internal regulations and values are of key importance
for PUMA’s corporate governance. For this
reason, a revised version of the PUMA
Code of Ethics (http://about.puma.
com/de/nachhaltigkeit/standards/coe)
was communicated company-wide in
2014. The communication of the PUMA
Code of Ethics was made directly by the
CEO of PUMA SE. To further reduce the
risk of misconduct, the Code of Ethics is

accompanied by guidelines governing
selected risk areas in detail. Risk-based
classroom training sessions in the areas
of corruption and antitrust were also conducted.

Description of the working practices of the Administrative Board
and the Managing Directors and the
composition and working practices
of their committees

In 2016, the CEO of PUMA SE expected
all PUMA employees to complete an ethics e-learning training course. The focal
points of the training course this year
were: combating corruption, conduct in the
workplace, confidentiality of business
information, and environmental protection. In total, 97% of PUMA employees
completed the ethics e-learning program in
2016.

PUMA SE has a single-tier management
and control structure. According to Articles
43 – 45 SE-VO, in conjunction with Sections 20 et seqq. SEAG, under the single-tier system, management of the SE is the
responsibility of a single body, the Administrative Board. The Managing Directors
manage the Company’s daily business.
Another corporate body is the Annual General Meeting.

The establishment and monitoring of the
Group‘s compliance structure is carried out
by the PUMA SE Risk & Compliance Committee. This consists of a specified group
of executives, including PUMA SE‘s Managing Directors. The regular meetings of
the Committee include the analysis of compliance risks and the establishment and
approval of appropriate measures (guidelines, training courses, etc.). The Audit
Committee of the Administrative Board of
PUMA SE is informed regularly as to the
status of the compliance structure implementation.

The Administrative Board of PUMA SE
manages the Company, determines the
Company’s basic business strategies and
monitors the implementation of said strategies by the Managing Directors. It appoints
and dismisses the Managing Directors,
decides on the compensation system and
establishes the compensation. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the
Administrative Board consists of at least
three members. At least one independent
member of the Administrative Board must
have expertise in the areas of finance,
accounting or auditing. The members of
the Administrative Board are appointed
by the Annual General Meeting, a third of
them pursuant to the German Codetermination Act based on binding nominations by

The employees of PUMA have access to
a Group-wide integrity hotline for reporting
unethical, unlawful and criminal activity.

employee representatives. The members
of the Administrative Board are appointed
for a period up to the close of the Annual
General Meeting that adopts the resolution approving the actions of the Board for
the fourth financial year after the term of
office began (the financial year in which the
term of office begins is not counted) and
no later than six years after the respective
Administrative Board member was appointed. Administrative Board members may be
reappointed.
In 2016 the Administrative Board consisted – almost continuously – of nine members. Only in the period between Ms. Belén
Essioux-Trujillo’s resignation on April 11,
2016 and the election of Ms. Béatrice Lazat
by the Annual General Meeting on May
4, 2016 there were eight members of the
Administrative Board. The regular period
of office of all members of the Administrative Board ends at the close of the Annual General Meeting in 2017. Details of the
members of the Administrative Board can
be found in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements (last chapter).
Meetings of the Administrative Board
must be held at least every three months.
Meetings must also be held if required for
the Company’s well-being or if a member
of the Administrative Board demands that a
meeting be convened. The Administrative
Board held four regular meetings in 2016.
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 131

The Administrative Board has established
five committees to perform its duties and
receives regular reports on their work. The
principles of cooperation of the Administrative Board of PUMA SE and the duties of the
committees are set out in the Rules of Procedure for the Administrative Board, which
can be viewed at http://about.PUMA.com
under „Corporate Governance“.
The Executive Committee consists of three
members. It is responsible for organizing
meetings of the Administrative Board and
for making decisions when instructed by
the Administrative Board to do so on its
behalf.
The Personnel Committee consists of
three members. The Personnel Committee is responsible for entering into and
making changes to Managing Directors’
employment contracts and for establishing
policies for Human Resources and personnel development. The entire Administrative Board decides on issues involving the
Managing Directors’ compensation based
on recommendations from the Personnel
Committee.
The Audit Committee consists of three
members. The Chairman of the Audit
Committee must be an independent shareholder representative and must have
expertise in the fields of accounting and
auditing in accordance with Section 100(5)
132 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

AktG. In particular, the Audit Committee
is responsible for accounting issues and
monitoring the accounting process, the
effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management system, internal audits, compliance and the statutory audit of the financial statements, with
particular regard to the required independence of the statutory auditors, issuing the
audit mandate to the statutory auditors,
defining the audit areas of focus, any additional services to be performed by the auditors and the fee agreement. The recommendation of the Administrative Board on
the selection of the statutory auditors must
be based on a corresponding recommendation by the Audit Committee. Once the
Annual General Meeting has appointed the
statutory auditors, and the Administrative
Board has issued the audit assignment,
the Audit Committee shall work with the
statutory auditors to specify the scope of
the audit and the audit areas of focus. The
statutory auditors shall attend the meeting
to review the annual financial statements
and the consolidated financial statements
and shall report on the key findings of their
audit. They shall also inform the Committee about other services they have
provided in addition to auditing services
and shall confirm their independence.
Each month, the Audit Committee shall
receive financial data on the PUMA Group,
which will allow the tracking of developments in net assets, financial position,

results of operations and the order books
on a continual basis. The Audit Committee
shall also deal with issues relating to the
balance sheet and income statement and
shall discuss these with Management. In
addition, when the internal audit projects
are completed, the Audit Committee shall
receive the audit reports, which must also
include any actions taken.
The Sustainability Committee consists of
three members and is responsible for promoting business sustainability as well as
awareness of the need to act fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in every decision made and every action taken.
The Nominating Committee has three
members, who may only be representatives of the shareholders on the Administrative Board. The Nominating Committee
proposes suitable shareholder candidates
to the Administrative Board for its voting
recommendations to the Annual General
Meeting.
The current composition of the committees
can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (last chapter).
The Managing Directors manage the
Company’s business with the goal of creating sustainable value with shared responsibility. They implement the guidelines and
targets issued by the Administrative Board.

The Board currently consists of three members and has a chairman. The Managing
Directors inform the Administrative Board
regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely manner regarding all company-related
issues with respect to planning, business
development, the risk situation, risk management and compliance. They provide
details on and reasons for deviations of
business performance from established
plans and objectives.
The Managing Directors are required to
disclose conflicts of interest to the Administrative Board immediately and inform the
other Managing Directors about any such
conflicts. They are permitted to carry out
additional activities, especially Supervisory Board or similar mandates outside the
PUMA Group, only with the prior approval of the Administrative Board. In the past
year, Managing Directors of PUMA SE had
no conflicts of interest.
The principles of cooperation of the Managing Directors of PUMA SE are laid down
in the Rules of Procedure for the Managing
Directors, which can be viewed at http://
about.PUMA.com under „Corporate Governance“.

Objectives for the composition of
the Administrative Board
The members of the Administrative Board as
a group possess the appropriate knowledge,
skills and professional experience necessary for the proper fulfillment of their duties.
Relevant qualifications, in compliance with
diversity and appropriate involvement of
women, are the key factors for the composition of the Administrative Board. Based on
Section 5.4.1 of the Code, the Administrative Board has set targets for his composition that have been fulfilled. In detail:

• The members have sufficient time to perform his/her mandate in the Administrative Board.

• The Administrative Board prevents potential significant and not only temporary
conflicts of interest of its members by
regularly monitoring and critically scrutinizing its members‘ other activities.

• According to Section 1(4) of the Rules of

• The members of the Administrative Board

Procedure for the Administrative Board,
Administrative Board members may, in
principle, not be over 70 years of age
and their maximum term of office may not
exceed three terms.

as a group have the experience and
knowledge in the field of management
and/or monitoring market-oriented companies as well as in the business segments and sales markets of PUMA.

Regarding its target to reach a women’s
proportion of 30 % the Administrative
Board has set an implementation deadline
until June 30, 2017.

• A

sufficient number of members have
strong international backgrounds.

• Including

the employees‘ representative
on the Administrative Board, the Administrative Board has an appropriate number
of independent members.

Members of PUMA SE‘s Administrative
Board, its Managing Directors and senior
staff have the opportunity to attend appropriate training and continuing education
programs.

• The

Chairman of the Audit Committee
has specialist knowledge and experience
in the application of accounting principles
and internal control procedures and is
independent.
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT | 133

Commitments to promote the
participation of women in management positions in accordance
with Art. 9(1)c(ii) of the SE Regulation (SE-VO) and Section 22(6)
of the German SE Implementation
Act (SEAG) in connection Section
76(4), Section 111(5) AktG
The targets for the proportion of women on
the Administrative Board, at the level of the
Managing Directors and the two management levels below the Managing Directors
were set on time by September 30, 2015.
For the Administrative Board of PUMA SE
a target of 30 % women was set and for
the level of the Managing Directors a target of 20 %, on the condition that PUMA
SE has five or more Managing Directors.
The Administrative Board adopted targets
of 20% for the first management level and
30 % for the second management level.
All implementation deadlines initially run
until June 30, 2017.
In the future, the inclusion of women among
the Managing Directors shall be guaranteed in the event of a new appointment, in
particular by giving special consideration to
women from among several equally qualified applicants. If a position must be filled
by outside candidates, special care should
be taken to consider properly qualified
134 | COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT

female candidates. The same applies when
filling management positions. In order to
include even more women in management
positions in the future, PUMA SE is using
part-time and half-day models, as well as
flexible working hours and the provision of
more childcare places to promote a better
balance between work and family life.

Directors‘ Dealings
In the reporting year, the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative
Board have acquired no PUMA shares. No
sales were reported to us.

Shareholdings of the Administrative Board and the Managing Directors

Declaration by the Legal
Representatives
Regarding the Affirmation pursuant to Section 315(1)(6) of the German Commercial
Code (HGB) (Responsibility Statement/
Bilanzeid), please refer to the Notes.

Herzogenaurach, January 30, 2017

The Managing Directors

GULDEN

LÄMMERMANN

SØRENSEN

According to the notification dated August 3,
2011 pursuant to Sections 21 and 22 of the
German Securities Trading Act (WpHG), on
this date Messrs. François-Henri Joseph
Pinault (Administrative Board member) and
François Jean-Henri Pinault indirectly held
75.12 % (11,330,446 voting rights) of the
voting rights in PUMA SE, of which 1.15 %
of the voting rights (173,377 voting rights)
were treasury shares of PUMA SE.

This is a translation of the German version. In case of doubt, the German version shall apply.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

136
137
138
139

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
CHANGES IN FIXED ASSETS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AUDITOR‘S OPINION

140
141
142
190

T.1

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Notes

31.12.2016
€ million

31.12.2015
€ million

ASSETS

Notes

31.12.2016
€ million

31.12.2015
€ million

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS‘ EQUITY

Cash and cash equivalents

3

326.7

338.8

Current financial liabilities

13

25.3

14.0

Inventories

4

718.9

657.0

Trade payables

13

580.6

519.7

Trade receivables

5

499.2

483.1

Income taxes

22

41.4

49.7

22

37.4

50.5

Other current provisions

16

56.0

52.7

Other current financial assets

6

114.1

76.8

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

0.0

3.0

Other current assets

7

69.2

78.6

Other current financial liabilities

13

70.0

115.9

1,765.4

1,684.8

Other current liabilities

13

121.5

125.1

894.9

880.0

8

63.1

64.2

Income tax receivables

Current assets

Current liabilities
Deferred income taxes

8

229.5

219.8

Deferred taxes

Property, plant and equipment

9

252.1

232.6

Pension provisions

15

31.6

23.8

Intangible assets

10

423.1

403.3

Other non-current provisions

16

29.8

23.5

Investments in associates

11

16.5

15.2

Liabilities from acquisitions

17

5.0

0.0

Other non-current financial assets

12

59.8

39.3

Other non-current financial liabilities

13

16.2

7.2

Other non-current assets

12

18.7

25.2

Other non-current liabilities

13

2.3

2.2

999.7

935.5

148.0

121.0

Non-current assets

Non-current liabilities
Subscribed capital

18

38.6

38.6

Group reserves

18

203.2

162.5

Retained earnings

18

1,496.6

1,441.7

Treasury stock

18

-31.4

-31.4

1,706.9

1,611.3

Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent

Total assets

136 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2,765.1

2,620.3

Non-controlling interest

18

15.3

8.0

Shareholders' equity

18

1,722.2

1,619.3

2,765.1

2,620.3

Total liabilities and shareholders‘ equity

T.2

Consolidated Income Statement

Notes

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Sales

25

3,626.7

3,387.4

Cost of sales

25

-1,970.3

-1,847.2

Gross profit

25

1,656.4

1,540.2

15.7

16.5

-1,544.5

-1,460.5

127.6

96.3

1.2

1.0

Royalty and commission income
Other operating income and expenses

20

Operating income (EBIT)

Result from associated companies

21

Financial income

21

10.5

11.2

Financial expenses

21

-20.4

-23.4

-8.7

-11.2

118.9

85.0

-30.5

-23.3

88.4

61.7

-26.0

-24.6

62.4

37.1

Financial result

Earnings before taxes (EBT)

Taxes on income

22

Consolidated net earnings for the year
attributable to: Non-controlling interest

18

Equity holders of the parent (net earnings)
Earnings per share (€)

23

4.17

2.48

Earnings per share (€) - diluted

23

4.17

2.48

Weighted average shares outstanding (million)

23

14.940

14.940

Weighted average shares outstanding. diluted (million)

23

14.940

14.940

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 137

T.3

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
After tax
2016
€ million

Tax impact
2016
€ million

Before tax
2016
€ million

After tax
2015
€ million

88.4

61.7

Tax impact
2015
€ million

Before tax
2015
€ million

Net earnings before attribution

88.4

Currency changes

11.9

0.0

11.9

-0.0

0.0

-0.0

-17.4
51.1

5.2
-0.6

-22.6
51.7

-34.6
21.2

13.5
-5.3

-48.1
26.5

4.9

-0.8

5.7

0.5

-0.2

0.6

Share in the other comprehensive income of at equity accounted investments

-0.1

0.0

-0.1

0.2

0.0

0.2

Items expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

50.4

3.8

46.6

-12.7

8.1

-20.8

Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (IAS 19)

-9.1

2.3

-11.3

1.4

-0.3

1.7

Items not expected to be reclassified to the income statement in the future

-9.1

2.3

-11.3

1.4

-0.3

1.7

Other result

41.3

6.1

35.2

-11.3

7.7

-19.1

129.7
26.6
103.1

6.1

123.6
26.6
97.0

50.4
26.9
23.5

7.7

42.6
26.9
15.7

Cashflow hedge
Release to the income statement
Market value for cashflow hedges
Net result of available-for-sale financial assets

Comprehensive income
attributable to: Non-controlling interest
Equity holder of the parent

138 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

6.1

61.7

7.7

Consolidated Statement of Cashflows

T.4

Notes

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Operating activities

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

17

-6.8

-0.5

9, 10

-84.3

-79.0

Investing activities

Earnings before tax (EBT)

118.9

85.0

Adjustments for:
Depreciation

Notes

Payment for acquisitions
Purchase of property and equipment

9, 10

Non-realized currency gains/losses, net

59.9

57.5

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

1.5

23.8

-0.7

-5.3

Payment for other assets

12

-0.5

-13.2

Interest received

21

8.8

7.2

-81.4

-61.7

Result from associated companies

11

-1.2

-0.9

Financial income

21

-10.2

-11.0

Financial expenses

21

14.0

15.2

0.6

-16.4

-3.2

-0.5

Changes in non-current liabilities

13

-0.1

0.1

4.8

10.9

Raising/ (-) Repayment of current financial liabilities

13

-43.4

71.0

26

182.9

134.5

Raising of non-current financial liabilities

13

9.2

7.3

Dividend payments to equity holders of the parent

18

-7.5

-7.5

5, 6, 7

-16.8

-8.8

18

-19.3

-42.0

4

-57.7

-92.2

26

-61.1

28.9

13

74.2

-24.1

182.7

9.4

-0.7

7.3

11,12

1.0

0.9

Interest paid

21

-11.6

-9.1

Change in cash and cash equivalents

-12.1

-62.7

Income taxes paid

22

-41.0

-38.4

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year

338.8

401.5

Net cash from operating activities

26

131.1

-37.1

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year

326.7

338.8

Changes from the sale of fixed assets
Changes to pension accruals

15

Other non cash effected expenses/income
Gross Cashflow
Changes in receivables and other current assets
Changes in inventories

Changes in trade payables and other current liabilities
Cash inflow from operating activities
Dividends received

Cash outflow from investing activities

Financing activities

Dividend payments to non-controlling interests
Cash inflow/ outflow from financing activities

Exchange rate-related changes in cashflow

3, 26

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 139

T.5

Statement of Changes in Equity
€ million
Reserves

Dec. 31, 2014

Subscribed
capital

Capital
reserve

Revenue
reserves

Difference
from
currency
conversion

38.6

193.7

57.9

-110.6

Cash flow
hedges

At equity
accounted
investments

Retained
earnings

Treasury
stock

Equity before
non-controlling
interests

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

34.6

0.5

1,412.0

-31.4

1,595.2

23.1

1,618.3

37.1

24.6

61.7

-13.7

2.3

-11.3

37.1

23.5

26.9

50.4

-7.5

-7.5

-42.0

-49.5

37.1

Net Earnings
Net income directly recognized in equity

1.9

-2.4

-13.3

0.2

Total comprehensive income

1.9

-2.4

-13.3

0.2

Dividends paid to equity holders of the
parent company / non-controlling interests
Changes in the group of consolidated
companies
Dec. 31, 2015

0.1

0.1

38.6

193.7

59.7

-112.8

21.2

0.6

Net income directly recognized in equity

-4.2

11.9

33.1

-0.1

Total comprehensive income

-4.2

11.9

33.1

-0.1

Dividends paid to equity holders of the
parent company / non-controlling interests

140 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

-31.4

1,611.3

8.0

1,619.3

62.4

26.0

88.4

40.7

0.6

41.3

62.4

103.1

26.6

129.7

-7.5

-7.5

-19.3

-26.8

1,706.9

15.3

1,722.2

62.4

Net Earnings

Dec. 31, 2016

1,441.7

38.6

193.7

55.6

-100.9

54.3

0.5

0.1

1,496.6

-31.4

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2015
Purchase cost
Balance
Jan.1,
2015
€ million

Currency
changes
and other
changes

Additions/
retransfers

160.3

8.6

15.9
303.5
11.3
491.0

Accumulated depreciation

Disposals

Balance
Dec 31,
2015
€ million

Balance
Jan 1,
2015
€ million

Currency
changes
and other
changes

8.2

-9.9

167.2

-54.4

-0.8

-0.3
11.4
-13.2
6.5

2.5
44.2
7.5
62.4

-0.1
-35.1
-1.6
-46.7

18.0
324.0
4.0
513.2

-4.2
-208.4

298.3
134.8

5.6
13.5

0.2

-12.7

110.5
543.6

-2.4
16.7

16.6
16.8

-1.5
-14.2

wanies

Change
in group of
Additions/ consolidated
retransfers1)
companies

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec. 31,
2015
€ million

Balance
Dec. 31,
2015
€ million

Balance
Dec. 31,
2014
€ million

-5.8

5.4

-55.6

111.6

105.9

0.3
-5.1

-2.2
-36.7

31.3

-6.1
-218.9

-267.0

-5.6

-44.7

36.7

-280.6

11.9
105.1
4.0
232.6

11.7
95.1
11.3
224.0

291.4
148.3

-56.6
-17.6

-0.6
-0.1

6.1

-51.1
-17.7

240.3
130.6

241.7
117.2

123.2
562.9

-78.0
-152.2

-1.2
-1.9

1.2
7.3

-90.8
-159.6

32.4
403.3

32.5
391.4

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land, land rights and buildings including
buildings on third party land
Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Assets under construction

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill
Intangible fixed assets with an unlimited or
indefinite useful life
Other intangible Assets

-12.8
-12.8

1) In the 2015 financial year, there were no expenses for impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets; see paragraphs 9 and 10

T.6

Changes in Fixed Assets 2016
Purchase cost
Balance
Jan.1,
2016
€ million

Currency
changes
and other
changes

167.2

-0.2

3.0

18.0
324.0
4.0
513.2

-1.0
7.9
-2.3
4.4

1.0
48.3
16.2
68.5

291.4
148.3

2.1
4.3

123.2
562.9

0.8
7.2

Accumulated depreciation

Change
in group of
Additions/ consolidated Disporetransfers
companies
sals

Balance
Dec 31,
2016
€ million

Balance
Jan 1,
2016
€ million

Currency
changes
and other
changes

-2.9

167.1

-55.6

-0.1

-6.0

17.9
357.4
17.3
559.7

-6.1
-218.9
0.0
-280.6

0.3
-3.9
-0.0
-3.7

-1.8
-40.7

-0.1
-0.6

1.1

-0.4
-23.6
-0.6
-27.6

-48.6

-0.7

3.7

-0.1

297.1
152.6

-51.1
-17.7

0.0

0.4
4.0

-5.5
-5.6

134.7
584.4

-90.8
-159.6

-0.6
-0.5

Change
in group of
Additions/ consolidated
retransfers1)
companies

Carrying amounts

Disposals

Balance
Dec. 31,
2016
€ million

Balance
Dec. 31,
2016
€ million

Balance
Dec. 31,
2015
€ million

3.0

-58.8

108.4

111.6

0.3
22.9
-0.0
26.1

-7.5
-241.3
-0.0
-307.5

10.4
116.1
17.3
252.1

11.9
105.1
4.0
232.6

-46.7
-17.7

250.4
134.9

240.3
130.6

-96.9
-161.3

37.8
423.1

32.4
403.3

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land, land rights and buildings including
buildings on third party land
Technical equipment and machines
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Assets under construction

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill
Intangible fixed assets with an unlimited or
indefinite useful life
Other intangible Assets

15.8
15.8

0.2
0.9

4.3

-11.3
-11.3

0.5
4.8

5.3
5.3

1) In the 2016 financial year, there were no expenses for impairment of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets; see paragraphs 9 and 10.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 141

N OTE S TO TH E CONSOLIDAT ED FINANC IAL STAT EM E N TS

1. General 4
T.7

Under the “PUMA” brand name, PUMA SE and its subsidiaries are engaged in the development and sale of a broad range of sports and sports lifestyle products, including footwear, apparel, and accessories. The company is a European stock corporation (Societas
Europaea/SE) and the parent company of the PUMA Group, with its registered office on
PUMA WAY 1, 91074 Herzogenaurach, Germany. The competent registry court is in Fürth
(Bavaria).
The PUMA Group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Kering S.A.,
Paris; these financial statements are available on the website www.kering.com as well as
from the “Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF)”.
The consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE and its subsidiaries (hereinafter
referred to as the “Group” or “PUMA”) were prepared in accordance with the “International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)” accounting standards issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as they are to be applied in the EU, and the supplementary accounting principles to be applied in accordance with Section 315a (1) of the
German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB). The IASB standards and interpretations, as they are to be applied in the EU, which are mandatory for financial years as
of Friday, January 1, 2016, have been applied.
The following new and amended standards and interpretations have been used for the first
time in the current financial year:

142 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4

G4-17

Standard

Name

First-time adoption in the current financial year
Amendment IFRS 11

Accounting for Acquistitions of Interests in Joint Operations

Amendment IAS 1

Disclosure initiative

Amendment IAS 16 and IAS 38

Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and
amortization

Amendment IAS 16 and IAS 41

Agriculture: bearer plants

Amendment IAS 27

Application of the equity method in separate financial statements

AIP 2012 – 2014

Improvements to IFRS

Amendment IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and
IAS 28

Investment entities: Applying the consolidation exception

The standards and interpretations used for the first time as of January 1, 2016 did not have
any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been released, but will only take effect
in later reporting periods and are not applied earlier by the group:

T.8
Standard

Name

Date of
adoption*

Planned
adoption

Endorsed
IFRS 9

Financial Instruments

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

IFRS 15

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

1/1/2016

1/1/2016

Amendment IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for
Unrealised Losses

1/1/2017

1/1/2017

Amendment IAS 7

Disclosure Initiative

1/1/2017

1/1/2017

Amendment IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

Amendment IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts

1/1/2018

1/1/2018

IFRS 16

Leases

1/1/2019

Amendment IFRS
10 and IAS 28

Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
Investor and ist Associate or Joint Venture

Endorsement pending
IFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts

with customers. It also calls for more informative and relevant information to be provided
to the target audience of the annual financial statements than before. Detailed analyses
with respect to the first-time application of IFRS 15 are still being conducted. In particular,
the new regulations on payments to customers, licenses and customer loyalty programs
are subjected to a critical assessment. Because PUMA has not entered into any longterm contracts and multi-component agreements, no significant impact on accounting is
expected.
The new leasing standard IFRS 16 will, in future, lead to the recognition of all leases in
the form of a right to use and a corresponding leasing obligation. In all cases, they are
presented in the income statement as a financing process, i.e. in general, the right to use
must be amortized on a straight-line basis, and the leasing obligation must be amortized
using the effective interest method. Detailed analyses with respect to the initial application
of IFRS 16 are still being conducted. An estimate of the possible impact of the application
of the new leasing standard is given in paragraph 28 (Other Financial Obligations: Obligations from Operating Leases).
The company does not anticipate the remaining standards mentioned above to have a
significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.

1/1/2019
Postponed

* Adjusted by EU endorsement, if applicable

IFRS 9 contains provisions for the recognition, measurement, derecognition and accounting of hedging transactions. As a result, the financial instruments previously accounted
for under IAS 39 (Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement) are now fully
accounted for under IFRS 9. This includes, among other things, a new impairment model
based on the expected credit defaults. IFRS 9 also contains new rules for the application
of hedge accounting. Detailed analyses with respect to the first-time application of IFRS 9
are still being conducted. This is not expected to have any significant impact.

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements was based on historical acquisition and manufacturing costs, with the exception of the profit or loss assessment of financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The items contained in the financial statements of the individual Group companies are
measured based on the currency that corresponds to the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates. The consolidated financial statements are
prepared in euros (EUR or €). Amounts being shown in millions of euros with one decimal
place may lead to rounding differences since the calculation of individual items is based
on figures presented in thousands.
The cost of sales method is used for the income statement.

IFRS 15 stipulates when and in what amounts revenues are to be recognized. The standard provides a single, principle-based, five-step model to be applied to all contracts
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 143

2. S
 ignificant Consolidation, Accounting and Valuation Principles
Consolidation Principles
The consolidated financial statements were prepared as of December 31, 2016, the reporting date of the annual financial statements of the PUMA SE parent company, on the basis
of uniform accounting and valuation principles according to IFRS, as applied in the EU.
Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Group has existing rights which give it
the current ability to control the company‘s main activities. The main activities are the
activities which significantly influence the profitability of the company. Control is therefore
exercised when the Group is exposed to variable returns from the relationship with a company and, by using its authority to exercise control over the main activities, it is possible to
influence these returns. As a rule, the possibility of control is based on PUMA‘s holding a
direct or indirect majority of the voting rights. The company is included from the time when
the possibility of control exists. It ends when this no longer exists.
The capital consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired after January 1, 2005 is based on
the acquisition method. Upon initial consolidation, the assets, debts and contingent liabilities that can be identified as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value
as of the acquisition date, regardless of the non-controlling interests (previously referred
to as minority interest). At the time of the acquisition, there is a separately exercisable right
to vote on whether the interests of the non-controlling shareholders are valued at fair value
or at proportional net asset value.
The surplus of the acquisition costs arising from the purchase that exceeds the Group’s
share in the net assets stated at fair value is reported as goodwill. If the acquisition costs
are lower than the amount of the net assets stated at fair value, the difference is reported
directly in the income statement.
Pursuant to the contractual arrangement with the “joint venture partners”, PUMA is
already the beneficial owner of some controlling interests. The companies are fully included in the consolidated financial statements, and, therefore, non-controlling interests are
not disclosed. The present value of the capital shares attributable to the non-controlling
shareholders and the present value of the residual purchase prices expected due to corporate performance are included in the capital consolidation as acquisition costs for the
144 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

holdings. If there are any subsequent deviations, for acquisitions before January 1, 2010,
these lead to a subsequent adjustment of the acquisition costs not affecting income. For
business combinations as of January 1, 2010, the costs that can be directly allocated to
the acquisition as well as subsequent deviations in the present value of expected residual
purchase prices are recognized in the income statement pursuant to the application of the
amended IFRS 3.
With respect to the remaining controlling interests, losses attributable to non-controlling
interests are allocated to the latter, even if this results in a negative balance in non-controlling interests.
Receivables within the Group are offset against internal liabilities. As a general rule, any
set-off differences arising from exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in the income
statement to the extent that they accrued during the reporting period. If receivables and
liabilities are long-term and capital-replacing in nature, the currency difference is recognized directly in equity and in Other Comprehensive Income.
In the course of the expense and income consolidation, inter-company sales and intragroup income are offset against the expenses attributable to them. Interim profits not
yet realized within the Group as well as intra-group investment income are eliminated by
crediting them in the income statement

Group of Consolidated Companies
Apart from PUMA SE, all subsidiaries in which PUMA SE has existing direct or indirect
rights which give it the current ability to control the main activities are fully consolidated
in the consolidated financial statements. At present, the possibility of control in all Group
companies is based on the direct or indirect majority of the voting rights. Associated companies are accounted for in the Group using the equity method. The changes in the number of Group companies (including the parent company PUMA SE) were as follows:

As of Dec. 31, 2015

110

Formation and acquisition of companies

5

Disposal of companies

7

As of Dec. 31, 2016

as of Dec 31st 2016

T.10

T.9

108

The following changes occurred within the group of consolidated companies in financial
year 2016:
The additions in the group of consolidated companies concern the acquisition of the companies Genesis Group International Ltd. and Admiral Teamsports Ltd. and the formation
of the companies Janed Canada, LLC, PUMA Kids Apparel Canada, LLC, and PUMA
Information Technology Services Philippines Company Limited Inc.

No. Companies/Legal Entities

Country

City

Shareholder

Share in
Capital

Germany

Herzogenaurach

2. Austria PUMA Dassler Ges.m.b.H.

Austria

Salzburg

direct

100%

3. Dobotex Austria GmbH
4. Wilderness Holdings Ltd.

Austria

Salzburg

indirect

100%

Botswana

Maun

5. PUMA Sport Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia

Zagreb

6. PUMA Czech Republic s.r.o.
7. PUMA Denmark A/S

Parent Company
1. PUMA SE
EMEA

direct

20%

indirect

100%

Czech Republic Prague

indirect

100%

Denmark

Skanderborg

indirect

100%

8. PUMA Estonia OÜ

Estonia

Tallinn

indirect

100%

9. PUMA Finland Oy

Finland

Espoo

indirect

100%

France

Illkirch-Graffenstaden

indirect

100%

indirect

100%

10. PUMA FRANCE SAS

The disposals in the group of consolidated companies concern the closure of the companies PUMA Baltic UAB and the sale of the companies Brandon Oy, Brandon Company AB,
Brandon AB, Brandon USA, Inc., Brandon Trading (Shanghai) Ltd., and Brandon Hong
Kong Ltd.
These changes in the group of consolidated companies did not have a significant effect on
the net assets, financial position and results of operations.
The Group companies are allocated to regions as follows:

11. Dobotex France SAS

France

Paris

12. PUMA International Trading GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

13. PUMA Europe GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

14. PUMA Vertrieb GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

15. PUMA Sprint GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

direct

100%

16. PUMA Mostro GmbH

Germany

Herzogenaurach

indirect

100%

17. Dobotex Deutschland GmbH

Germany

Düsseldorf

indirect

100%

18. PUMA United Kingdom Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

19. PUMA Premier Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

20. Dobotex UK Ltd.

Great Britain

Manchester

indirect

100%

21. Branded Sports Merchandising UK Ltd.

Great Britain

London

indirect

100%

22. Genesis Group International Ltd.

Great Britain

Manchester

direct

100%1)

23. Admiral Teamsports Ltd.

Great Britain

Manchester

indirect

100%1)

24. Sport Equipment Hellas S. A. of Footwear, Apparel and Sportswear u.Li.

Greece

Athens

direct

100%1)

25. Sport Equipment TI Cyprus Ltd. u.Li.

Cyprus

Nicosia

direct

100%1)

26. PUMA Italia S.r.l.

Italy

Assago

indirect

100%

27. Dobotex Italia S.r.l.

Italy

Assago

indirect

100%

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 145

60. PUMA Canada, Inc.

Canada

28. PUMA Sport Israel Ltd.

Israel

Hertzeliya

indirect

100%

29. PUMA Malta Ltd.

Malta

St.Julians

indirect

100%

30. PUMA Racing Ltd.

Malta

St.Julians

indirect

100%

61. Janed Canada, LLC

Canada

31. PUMA Benelux B.V.

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

62. PUMA CHILE S.A.

Chile

32. PUMA International Sports
Marketing B.V.

Netherlands

Leusden

direct

100%

33. Brand Plus Licensing B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

direct

100%

34. Dobotex International B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

35. Branded Sports Merchandising B.V.

Netherlands

's-Hertogenbosch

indirect

36. Dobotex B.V.

Netherlands

37. Dobo Logic B.V.

Netherlands

38. Dobotex Licensing Holding B.V.

Netherlands

39. PUMA Norway AS

Norway

40. PUMA Polska Sp. z o.o.

Poland

's-Hertogenbosch
Tilburg
's-Hertogenbosch

indirect
indirect

St. Laurent
(Montreal)

indirect

100%

Toronto

indirect

51%

Santiago

direct

100%
100%

63. PUMA SERVICIOS SPA

Chile

Santiago

indirect

64. PUMA México Sport, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

direct

100%

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

100%

65. Servicios Profesionales RDS, S.A. de
C.V.

100%

66. Importaciones RDS, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

direct

100%

100%

67. Dobotex de México, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

100%

68. Importationes Brand Plus Licensing,
S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

Mexico City

indirect

100%

indirect

100%

Oslo

indirect

100%

Warsaw

indirect

100%

69. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA S.A.C.

Peru

Lima

indirect

100%

70. Distribuidora Deportiva PUMA Tacna
S.A.C.

Peru

Tacna

indirect

100%

41. PUMA Sports Romania Srl

Romania

Bucharest

indirect

100%

71. PUMA Retail Peru S.A.C.

Peru

42. PUMA-RUS o.o.o.

Russia

Moscow

indirect

100%

72. PUMA Sports LA S.A.

Uruguay

43. PUMA Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia

Bratsilava

indirect

100%

73. PUMA Suede Holding, Inc.

44. PUMA Sports Distributors (Pty) Ltd.

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

74. PUMA North America, Inc.

45. PUMA Sports South Africa (Pty) Ltd.

South Africa

Cape Town

indirect

100%

46. PUMA Iberia S.L.U

Spain

Barcelona

direct

47. Dobotex Spain S.L.

Spain

Barcelona

48. Nrotert AB

Sweden

49. PUMA Nordic AB

Lima

indirect

100%

Montevideo

direct

100%

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

USA

Westford

indirect

100%

75. Cobra Golf Incorporated

USA

Carlsbad

indirect

100%

100%

76. PUMA Accessories North America, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

85%

indirect

100%

77. Janed, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

Helsingborg

direct

100%

New York

indirect

51%

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

78. PUMA Kids Apparel North America,
LLC

USA

Sweden

50. Nrotert Sweden AB

Sweden

Helsingborg

indirect

100%

79. PUMA Kids Apparel Canada, LLC

USA

New York

indirect

51%

51. Mount PUMA AG (Schweiz)

Switzerland

Oensingen

direct

100%

52. PUMA Retail AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

53. Dobotex Switzerland AG

Switzerland

Oensingen

indirect

100%

80. PUMA Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Melbourne

indirect

100%

54. PUMA Spor Giyim Sanayi ve
Ticaret A.S.

Turkey

Istanbul

indirect

100%

81. White Diamond Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Melbourne

indirect

100%

82. White Diamond Properties Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Melbourne

indirect

100%

55. PUMA Ukraine TOV

Ukraine

Kiew

indirect

100%

83. Kalola Pty. Ltd.

Australia

Melbourne

indirect

100%

56. PUMA Middle East FZ LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100%

84. Liberty China Holding Ltd.

British Virgin
Islands

indirect

100%

57. PUMA UAE LLC

United Arab
Emirates

Dubai

indirect

100%

85. PUMA China Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

86. Dobotex China Ltd.

China

Shanghai

indirect

100%

87. Guangzhou World Cat Information
Consulting Services Company Ltd.

China

Guangzhou

indirect

100%

Americas
58. Unisol S.A.

Argentina

59. PUMA Sports Ltda.

Brazil

146 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Asia/Pacific

Buenos Aires

indirect

100%

88. World Cat Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

Sao Paulo

indirect

100%

89. Development Services Ltd.

Hongkong

direct

100%

90. PUMA International Trading Services
Ltd.

Hongkong

91. PUMA Asia Pacific Ltd.
92. PUMA Hong Kong Ltd.

The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, the functional currency of which is not the
euro, have been converted to euros at the average exchange rates valid on the balance
sheet date. Expenses and income have been converted at the annual average exchange
rates. Any differences resulting from the currency conversion of net assets relative to
exchange rates that had changed in comparison with the previous year were adjusted
against equity.

indirect

100%

Hongkong

direct

100%

Hongkong

indirect

100%

93. Dobotex Ltd.

Hongkong

indirect

100%

94. PUMA Sports India Private Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

95. PUMA India Corporate Services Private
Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

96. World Cat Sourcing India Private Ltd.

India

Bangalore

indirect

100%

97. PT PUMA Cat Indonesia Ltd.

Indonesia

Jakarta

indirect

100%

98. PUMA JAPAN K.K.

Japan

Tokyo

indirect

100%

99. PUMA Korea Ltd.

Korea (South)

Seoul

direct

100%

100. Dobotex Korea Ltd.

Korea (South)

Seoul

indirect

100%

101. PUMA Sports Goods Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia

Kuala Lumpur

indirect

100%

102. PUMA New Zealand Ltd.

New Zealand

Auckland

indirect

100%

103. PUMA Information Technology Services
Philippines Company Limited Inc.

Philippines

Manila

indirect

100%

104. PUMA Sports SEA Trading Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

direct

100%

USD

1.0541

1.1069

1.0887

1.1095

105. PUMA SEA Holding Pte. Ltd.

Singapore

106. PUMA Taiwan Sports Ltd.

Taiwan

107. World Cat Vietnam Co. Ltd.
108. World Cat Vietnam Sourcing &
Development Services Co. Ltd.

The significant conversion rates per euro are as follows:

T.11

Currency

2016
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

2015
Reporting date
exchange rate

Average
exchange rate

indirect

100%

HKD

8.1751

8.5922

8.4376

8.6014

Taipei

indirect

100%

JPY

123.4000

120.1967

131.0700

134.3140

Vietnam

Long An
Province

indirect

100%

GBP

0.8562

0.8195

0.7340

0.7258

Vietnam

Ho Chi Minh
City

indirect

100%

1) subsidiaries which are assigned to be economically 100% PUMA Group

PUMA Vertrieb GmbH, PUMA Mostro GmbH, PUMA Sprint GmbH, PUMA International
Trading GmbH, and PUMA Europe GmbH have made use of the exemption under Section
264 (3) of the HGB.

Currency Conversion
As a general rule, monetary items in foreign currencies are converted in the individual
financial statements of the Group companies at the exchange rate valid on the balance
sheet date. Any resulting currency gains and losses are immediately recognized in the
income statement. Non-monetary items are converted at historical acquisition and manufacturing costs.

Derivative Financial Instruments/ Hedge Accounting
Derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value at the time a contract is
entered into and thereafter. At the time when a hedging instrument is concluded, PUMA
classifies the derivatives either as the hedge of a planned transaction (cash flow hedge) or
the hedge of the fair value of a reported asset or liability (fair value hedge).
At the time when the transaction is concluded, the hedging relationship between the hedging instrument and the underlying transaction as well as the purpose of risk management
and the underlying strategy are documented. In addition, assessments as to whether the
derivatives used in the hedge accounting compensate effectively for a change in the fair
value or the cash flow of the underlying transaction are documented at the beginning of
and continuously after the hedge accounting.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 147

Changes in the market value of derivatives that are intended and suitable for cash flow
hedges and that prove to be effective are adjusted against equity, taking into account
deferred taxes. If there is no complete effectiveness, the ineffective part is recognized in
the income statement. The amounts recognized in equity are recognized in the income
statement during the same period in which the hedged planned transaction affects the
income statement. If, however, a hedged future transaction results in the recognition of a
non- financial asset or a liability, gains or losses previously recorded in equity are included
in the initial valuation of the acquisition costs of the respective asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are suitable for fair value hedges and which
have been determined as such are recognized directly in the consolidated income statement together with the changes in the fair value of the underlying transaction attributable
to the hedged risk. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives and the change in the
underlying transaction attributable to the hedged risk are reported in the consolidated
income statement in the item related to the underlying transaction.
The fair values of the derivative instruments used to hedge planned transactions and to
hedge the fair value of a reported asset or liability are shown under other current financial
assets or other current financial liabilities.

Leasing
Leases are to be classified either as finance leases or operating leases. Leases where the
Company, in its capacity as the lessee, is responsible for all significant opportunities and
risks that arise from the use of the lease object are treated as finance leases. All other
leases are classified as operating leases. The lease payments from operating leases are
recorded as an expense over the term of the contract.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances. To the extent that bank
deposits are not immediately required to finance current assets, they are invested as riskfree fixed-term deposits, presently for a term of three months. The total amount of cash
and cash equivalents is consistent with the cash and cash equivalents stated in the cash
flow statement.

Inventories
Inventories are valued at acquisition or manufacturing costs or at the lower net realizable
values derived from the selling price on the balance sheet date. As a general rule, the
acquisition cost of the merchandise is determined using the average cost method. Value
adjustments are adequately recorded, depending on age, seasonality, and realizable market prices, in a manner that is standard throughout the Group.

Receivables and Other Assets
Receivables and other assets are initially stated at fair value, taking into account transaction costs, and subsequently valued at amortized costs after deduction of value adjustments. All identifiable risks with respect to value adjustments are sufficiently accounted
for in the form of individual risk assessments based on historical values.
Adjustments are conducted in principle if, after the entry record of the financial asset,
there are objective indications for an adjustment which has an effect on the expected
future cash flow from that financial instrument. Significant financial difficulties of a debtor,
an increased probability that a creditor becomes insolvent or enters into a clean-up procedure, as well as a breach of contract, e.g. a cancellation or delay in interest or amortization
payments, all count as indicators for an existing adjustment. The amount of the adjustment
loss corresponds to the difference between the carrying amount and the cash value of the
expected cash flows.
The non-current assets contain loans and other assets. Non-taxable non-current assets
are discounted in principle at cash value if the resulting effect is significant.

Non-current Investments
The investments reported under non-current financial assets are classified as “available
for sale”. This category includes financial instruments that are not loans and receivables
or held-to-maturity financial investments and that are not recognized in the income statement at fair value. The “held-to-maturity financial investments” category and “financial
assets recognized in the income statement at fair value” do not apply within the PUMA
Group.
All purchases and disposals of non-current investments are recognized as of the trading
day. The initial recognition of non-current investments is made at fair value plus transac-

148 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

tion costs. They are also recognized at fair value in subsequent periods, provided this can
be determined reliably. Unrealized gains and losses are recognized in the statement of
comprehensive income, taking into account deferred taxes. When the non-current investments are sold, the profit or loss is recognized in the income statement.

An impairment test of goodwill per cash-generating unit (usually the countries) is performed once a year as well as whenever there are indicators of impairment and can result
in an impairment loss. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill.

If there are significant objective indications for an impairment of non-current investments,
they are written down in the income statement. In the case of equity investments classified
as available for sale, a substantial or sustained reduction in the fair value of the assets
below their acquisition costs is an objective indication of an impairment. The same applies
if there is no longer an active market for listed shares.

Acquired intangible assets largely consist of concessions, intellectual property rights and
similar rights. These are valued at acquisition costs, net of accumulated amortization. The
useful life of intangible assets is between three and ten years.

Property, Plant, and Equipment
Property, plant, and equipment are stated at acquisition costs, net of accumulated depreciation. The depreciation period depends on the expected useful life of the respective
item. The straight-line method of depreciation is applied. The useful life depends on the
type of the assets involved. Buildings are subject to a useful life of between ten and fifty
years, and a useful life of between three to ten years is assumed for moveable assets.
Repair and maintenance costs are recorded as an expense as of the date on which they
were incurred. Substantial improvements and upgrades are capitalized to the extent that
the criteria for capitalization of an asset item apply.
As a general rule, lease objects, the contractual basis of which is to be classified as a
finance lease are shown under property, plant and equipment; initially they are accounted for at fair value or the lower present value of the minimum lease payments and net of
accumulated depreciation in subsequent accounting periods.

Goodwill
Goodwill resulting from a business acquisition is calculated based on the difference
between the purchase price and the fair value of the acquired asset and liability items.
Goodwill from acquisitions is largely attributable to the intangible infrastructure acquired
and the associated opportunity to make a positive contribution to corporate value.
Goodwill amounts are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to
benefit from the synergy effects resulting from the business combination.

Other Intangible Assets

If the capitalization requirements of IAS 38.57 “Intangible Assets” are cumulatively met, expenses for the development phase for internally generated intangible assets
are capitalized at the time they are created. In subsequent periods, both internally
generated intangible assets and acquired intangible assets are measured at cost less
accumulated amortization and impairment losses. In the Group, internally generated
intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over a useful life of three
years.
The item also includes acquired trademark rights, which were assumed to have an indefinite useful life in light of the history of the brands and due to the fact that the brands are
continued by PUMA.

Impairment of Assets
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not written down according to schedule,
but are subject to an annual impairment test. Property, plant and equipment and other
intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment if there is any indication
of impairment in the value of the asset concerned. In order to determine whether there
is a requirement to record the impairment of an asset, the recoverable amount of the
respective asset (the higher amount of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use) is
compared with the carrying amount of the asset. If the recoverable amount is lower than
the carrying amount, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. The test for impairment is performed, if possible, at the level of the respective individual asset, otherwise at
the level of the cash-generating unit. Goodwill, on the other hand, is tested for impairment
only at the cash-generating unit level. If it is determined within the scope of the impairment
test that an asset needs to be written down, then the goodwill, if any, of the cash- generating unit is written down initially and, in a second step, the remaining amount is distributed
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 149

proportionately over the remaining assets. If the reason for the recorded impairment no
longer applies, a reversal of impairment loss is recorded to the maximum amount of the
written down cost. There is no reversal of an impairment loss for goodwill.

As a general rule, current financial liabilities also include those long-term loans that that
have a maximum residual term of up to one year.

Impairment tests are performed using the discounted cash flow method. For determining
the fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the expected cash flows are based on
corporate planning data. Expected cash flows are discounted using an interest rate in line
with market conditions.

In addition to defined benefit plans, some companies also have defined contribution plans,
which do not result in any additional pension commitment other than the current contributions. The pension provision under defined benefit plans is generally calculated using the
projected unit credit method. This method takes into account not only known pension benefits and pension rights accrued as of the reporting date, but also expected future salary
and pension increases. The defined benefit obligation (DBO) is calculated by discounting
expected future cash outflows at the rate of return on senior, fixed-rate corporate bonds.
The currencies and maturity periods of the underlying corporate bonds are consistent with
the currencies and maturity periods of the obligations to be satisfied. In some of the plans,
the obligation is accompanied by a plan asset. The pension provision shown is reduced
by the plan asset.

Investments in Associated Companies
Associated companies represent shareholdings, over which PUMA has a significant influence, but which do not qualify as subsidiaries or joint ventures. Significant influence is
generally assumed when PUMA holds, directly or indirectly, at least 20 percent, but less
than 50 percent of the voting rights.
Holdings in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. Here, the
shares are initially recognized at their acquisition cost and are subsequently adjusted for
the prorata changes in the Company’s net assets that are attributable to PUMA. Any recognized goodwill is shown in the carrying amount of the associated company.
Within the scope of the impairment test, the carrying amount of a company valued at
equity is compared with its recoverable amount provided that there is an indication that
the asset has decreased in value. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying
amount, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. If the reasons for the previously
recognized impairment no longer apply, a write-up is recognized in the income statement.

Financial Debt, Other Financial Liabilities and Other Liabilities
As a general rule, these entries are recognized at their acquisition cost, taking into account
transaction costs and subsequently recognized at amortized cost. Non-interest or low-interest-bearing liabilities with a term of at least one year are recognized at present value,
taking into account an interest rate in line with market conditions, and are compounded
until their maturity at their repayment amount. Liabilities from finance lease agreements
are recorded as of the beginning of the lease transaction at the amount of the present
value of the minimum lease amount, or at the lower fair value, and are adjusted by the
repayment amount of the lease installments.
150 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Provisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations

Revaluations, consisting of actuarial profits and losses, changes resulting from use of the
asset ceiling and return on plan assets (without interest on the net debt) are immediately
recorded under Other Comprehensive Income. The revaluations recorded in Other Comprehensive Income are part of the retained earnings and are no longer reclassified into
calculation of profit and loss. Past service costs are recorded as an expense if changes
are made to the plan.

Other Provisions
Provisions are recognized if the Group, as a result of a past event, has a current obligation
and this obligation is likely to result in an outflow of resources with economic benefits, the
amount of which can be reliably estimated. The provisions are recognized at their settlement value as determined on the basis of the best possible assessment and are not offset
by income. Provisions are discounted if the resulting effect is significant.
Provisions for the expected expenses from warranty obligations pursuant to the respective
national sales contract laws are recognized at the time of sale of the relevant products,
according to the best estimate in relation to the expenditure needed in order to fulfill the
Group’s obligation.

Provisions are also recognized to account for onerous contracts. An onerous contract is
assumed to exist where the unavoidable costs for fulfilling the contract exceed the economic benefit arising from this contract.
Provisions for restructuring measures are also recorded if a detailed, formal restructuring
plan has been produced, which has created a justified expectation that the restructuring
measures will be carried out by those concerned due to its implementation starting or its
major components being announced.

Treasury Shares
Treasury stock is deducted from equity at its market price as of the date of acquisition, plus
incidental acquisition costs. Pursuant to the authorization of the Annual General Meeting,
treasury stock can be repurchased for any authorized purpose, including the flexible management of the Company’s capital requirements.

Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program
In accordance with IFRS 2, stock-based compensation systems are recognized at fair value and recorded under personnel costs. PUMA has stock-based compensation systems
in the form of stock options (SOP) involving compensation in shares and in the form of
virtual shares with cash compensation.
The expenses associated with the SOP are determined from the fair value of the options as
of the grant date, without taking into account the impact of non-market-oriented exercise
hurdles (e.g. forfeited options if the eligible employee leaves the company prematurely).
The expense is recorded by distributing it as personnel costs over the vesting period until
the options are vested and is recognized as a capital reserve. Non-market-oriented exercise hurdles are adjusted in accordance with current expectations and the assessment of
expected exercisable options is reviewed on each balance sheet date. The resulting gains
and losses are recognized in the income statement and recorded through a corresponding
adjustment in equity over the remaining period up to the vesting date.
For share-based remunerations with cash compensation, a liability is recorded for the
services received and measured with its fair value upon addition.Until the debt is cleared,
its fair value is recalculated on every balance sheet date and on the settlement date, and
all changes to the fair value are recognized in the income statement.

Recognition of Sales Revenues
Revenues from the sale of products (sales revenues) are recognized at the time of the
transfer of the significant opportunities and risks associated with the ownership of the
goods and products sold to the buyer if it is likely that the Group will derive the economic
benefit from the sale. The amount of the recognized sales revenues is based on the fair
value of the consideration received or to be received, taking into account returns, discounts and rebates.

Royalty and Commission Income
Income from royalties is recognized in the income statement in accordance with the invoices to be submitted by the license holders. In certain cases, values must be estimated in
order to permit accounting on an accrual basis. Commission income is invoiced to the
extent that the underlying purchase transaction is deemed realized.

Advertising and Promotional Expenses
Advertising expenses are recognized in the income statement as of the date of their accrual. As a general rule, promotional expenses stretching over several years are recognized
as an expense over the contractual term on an accrual basis. Any expenditure surplus
resulting from this allocation of expenses after the balance sheet date are recognized in
the form of an impairment of assets or a provision for anticipated losses in the financial
statements.

Product Development
PUMA continuously develops new products in order to meet market requirements and
market changes. Research costs are recognized in full as expenses when they are
incurred. Development costs are also recognized as an expense at the time they are
incurred unless they meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”.

Financial Result
The financial results include the results from associated companies as well as interest
income from financial investments and interest expense from loans and financial instruments. Financial results also include interest expenses from discounted non-current liabilities and from pension provisions that are associated with acquisitions of business enterprises or arise from the valuation of pension commitments.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 151

Exchange rate effects that can be directly allocated to an underlying transaction are
shown in the respective income statement item.

Income Taxes
Current income taxes are determined in accordance with the tax regulations of the respective countries where the Company conducts its operations.

Deferred Taxes
Deferred taxes resulting from temporary valuation differences between the IFRS and tax
balance sheets of individual Group companies and from consolidation procedures are
charged to each taxable entity and shown either as deferred tax assets or deferred tax
liabilities.Deferred tax assets may also include claims for tax reductions that result from
the expected utilization of existing losses carried forward to subsequent years and which
is sufficiently certain to materialize. Deferred tax assets or liabilities may also result from
accounting treatments that do not affect net income. Deferred taxes are calculated on the
basis of the tax rates that apply to the reversal in the individual countries and that are in
force or adopted as of the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are shown only to the extent that the respective tax advantage is likely
to materialize. Value adjustments are recognized on the basis of the past earnings situation and the business expectations for the foreseeable future if this criterion is not fulfilled.

Assumptions and Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires some assumptions and
estimates that have an impact on the amount and disclosure of the recognized assets
and liabilities, income and expenses, as well as contingent liabilities. The assumptions
and estimates are based on premises, which in turn are based on currently available
information. In individual cases, the actual values may deviate from the assumptions and
estimates made. Consequently, future periods involve a risk of adjustment to the carrying
amount of the assets and liabilities concerned.
All assumptions and estimates are continuously reassessed. They are based on historical
experiences and other factors, including expectations regarding future global and industry-related trends that appear reasonable under the current circumstances. Assumptions
and estimates are particularly relevant for the valuation of goodwill, brands, pension obli152 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

gations, derivative financial instruments and taxes. The most significant forward-looking
assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty as of the reporting date concerning
the above-mentioned items are discussed below.

Goodwill and Brands
A review of the impairment of goodwill is based on the calculation of the value in use. In
order to calculate the value in use, the Group must estimate the future cash flows from
those cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. To this end, the data used
were from the three-year plan, which is based on forecasts of the overall economic development and the resulting industry-specific consumer behavior. Another key assumption
concerns the determination of an appropriate interest rate for discounting the cash flow to
present value (discounted cash flow method). The “relief from royalty method” method is
used to value brands. See paragraph 10 for further information, in particular with regard to
the assumptions used for the calculation.

Pension Obligations
Pension obligations are determined using an actuarial calculation. This calculation is contingent on a large number of factors that are based on assumptions and estimates regarding
the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, future wage and salary increases,
mortality and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature of the commitments
made, the assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. Any change in these
assumptions has an impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligations. At the end of
each year, the Group determines the discount rate applied to determine the present value
of future payments. This discount rate is based on the interest rates of corporate bonds with
the highest credit rating that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are paid
and the maturity of which corresponds to that of the pension obligations. See paragraph 15
for further information, in particular with regard to the parameters used for the calculation.

Taxes
Tax items are determined taking into account the various prevailing local tax laws and the
relevant administrative opinions and, due to their complexity, may be subject to different
interpretations by persons subject to tax on the one hand and the tax authorities on the
other hand. Differing interpretations of tax laws may result in subsequent tax payments for
past years; depending on the management’s assessment, these differing opinions may be
taken into account.

The recognition of deferred taxes, in particular with respect to tax losses carried forward,
requires that estimates and assumptions be made concerning future tax planning strategies as well as expected dates of initial recognition and the amount of future taxable
income. The taxable income from the relevant corporate planning is derived for this judgment. This takes into account the past financial position and the business development
expected in the future. Active deferred tax assets on losses carried forward are recorded
in the event of companies incurring a loss only if it is highly likely that future positive income
will be achieved that can be offset against these tax losses carried forward. Please see
paragraph 8 for further information and detailed assumptions.

Derivative Financial Instruments
The assumptions used for estimating derivative financial instruments are based on the
prevailing market conditions as of the balance sheet date and thus reflect the fair value.
See paragraph 24 for further information.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 153

3. Cash and Cash Equivalents

5. Trade Receivables

As of December 31, 2016, the Group has € 326.7 million (previous year: € 338.8 million)
in cash and cash equivalents. The average effective interest rate of financial investments
was 0.7% (previous year: 1.0%). There are no restrictions on disposition.

This item consists of:

T.13

4. Inventories
Inventories are allocated to the following main groups:

T.12
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

20.2

19.9

Footwear

239.7

218.6

Apparel

193.7

177.3

Accessories /Other

111.6

102.6

Goods in transit

153.7

138.6

Total

718.9

657.0

Raw materials, consumables and supplies
Finished goods and merchandise/inventory

The table shows the carrying amounts of the inventories net of value adjustments. Of the value adjustments of € 44.0 million (previous year: € 48.2 million), approx. 69% (previous year:
approx. 72%) were recognized as expense under costs of sales in the 2016 financial year.
The amount of inventories recorded as an expense during the period mainly includes the
cost of sales shown in the consolidated income statement.

154 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Trade receivables, gross

542.0

521.9

Less value adjustments

-42.9

-38.8

Trade receivables, net

499.2

483.1

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Status of value adjustments as of January 1

38.8

39.4

Scope

-2.3

0.0

0.4

0.3

Allocations

12.5

7.3

Allowances for trade receivables developed as follows:

T.14

Exchange rate differences

Utilization

-4.7

-6.0

Reversals

-1.9

-2.2

Status of value adjustments as of December 31

42.9

38.8

The age structure of the trade receivables is as follows:

6. Other Current Financial Assets
This item consists of:

T.15
Gross values 2016
Total

€ Mio.

542.0

of which not written down

of which
written down

Not due

0 – 30
days

31 – 90
days

91 – 180
days

over 180
days

370.3

37.8

26.1

6.8

1.0

100.0

T.17
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

78.8

51.0

Other financial assets

35.2

25.8

114.1

76.8

Total

T.16

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying
amount.

Gross values 2015
Total

€ Mio.

521.9

of which not written down

of which
written down

Not due

0 – 30
days

31 – 90
days

91 – 180
days

over 180
days

344.2

40.9

28.9

6.1

2.7

99.1

With respect to trade receivables that were not written down, PUMA assumes that the
debtors will satisfy their payment obligations.

7. Other Current Assets
This item consists of:

T.18
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Prepaid expense relating to the subsequent period

31.6

35.5

Other receivables

37.6

43.1

Total

69.2

78.6

The amount shown is due within one year. The fair value corresponds to the carrying
amount.
Other receivables mainly include VAT receivables amounting to € 17.8 million (previous
year: € 15.7 million).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 155

8. Deferred Taxes

Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes from possible dividends on retained earnings
of subsidiaries that serve to cover the financing needs of the respective company were
not accumulated, since it is most likely that such temporary differences will not be cleared
in the near future.

Deferred taxes relate to the items shown below:
T.19
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

110.3

119.1

Non-current assets

30.7

33.0

Current assets

38.0

32.9

Tax losses carried forward

Provisions and other liabilities

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to a taxable entity and can in fact
be netted. Accordingly, they are shown in the balance sheet as follows:

T.20
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

229.5

219.8

63.1

64.2

166.4

155.6

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

219.8

178.8

Recognition in the income statement

4.2

30.9

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income

5.4

10.1

229.5

219.8

65.7

66.0

244.8

251.0

65.9

76.9

Deferred tax assets

Current assets

8.8

14.5

Deferred tax liabilities

Provisions and other liabilities

3.7

4.0

78.4

95.4

166.4

155.6

Deferred tax assets (before netting)
Non-current assets

Deferred tax liabilities (before netting)
Deferred tax assets, net

Of the deferred tax assets, € 85.3 million (previous year: € 87.7 million) and of the deferred
tax liabilities € 11.3 million (previous year: € 17.6 million) are short term.
As of December 31, 2016, tax losses carried forward amounted to a total of € 596.9 million (previous year: € 675.0 million). This results in a deferred tax asset of € 171.8 million
(previous year: € 192.1 million). Deferred tax assets were recognized for these items in
the amount at which the associated tax advantages are likely to be realized in the form
of future profits for income tax purposes. Accordingly, deferred tax assets for tax losses
carried forward of € 61.5 million (previous year: € 73.0 million) have not been recognized;
of this amount, € 59.3 million (previous year: € 73.0 million) are non-forfeitable; however,
€ 13.4 million can never be used due to the absence of future expectations.
In addition, no deferred taxes were recognized for deductible temporary differences
amounting to € 5.0 million (previous year: € 5.9 million).
156 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred tax assets, net

The changes in deferred tax assets were as follows:

T.21

Deferred tax assets, previous year

Deferred tax assets

The changes in property, plant, and equipment in the 2016 financial year are shown in
“Changes in Fixed Assets”. As in the previous year, there were no impairment expenses
that exceeded current depreciation during the reporting year.

The changes in deferred tax liabilities were as follows:
T.22
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Deferred tax liabilities, previous year

64.2

54.5

Recognition in the income statement

-3.6

3.0

Adjustment against Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax liabilities

2.4

6.7

63.1

64.2

9. Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment at their carrying amounts consist of:
T.23

Land and buildings, including buildings on third-party land
Technical equipment and machinery
Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Assets under construction
Total

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

108.4

111.6

10.4

11.9

116.1

105.1

17.3

4.0

252.1

232.6

The carrying amount of property, plant, and equipment is derived from the acquisition
costs. Accumulated depreciation of property, plant, and equipment amounted to € 307.5
million (previous year: € 280.6 million).

10. Intangible Assets
This item mainly includes goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, and assets
associated with the Company’s own retail activities.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized according to
schedule. Impairment tests were performed in the past financial year using the discounted cash flow method. This was based on data from the respective three-year plan. The
recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use. This did not result
in an impairment loss.
The cash-generating unit ‘CPG – Cobra PUMA Golf’ includes the Cobra brand as an
intangible asset, with an indefinite useful life, at € 134.9 million (previous year: € 130.6
million). The carrying amount of the Cobra brand is significant in comparison to the overall
carrying amount of the intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. This is allocated to
the Central Unit segment. The recoverable amount of the Cobra brand (Level 3) was determined on the basis of the “relief from royalty” method. As in the previous year, this calculation assumed a royalty rate of 8%, a 3% growth rate and a discount rate of 6.8% p.a..
In 2016, development costs related to COBRA brand golf clubs were capitalized for the
first time in the amount of € 1.9 million. The development costs are allocated to other
intangible assets in the “Changes in fixed assets” item. Current depreciation related to
development costs amounted to € 0.0 million in 2016.
The changes in intangible assets in the 2016 financial year are shown in “Changes in
Fixed Assets”. Other intangible assets include advance payments in the amount of € 2.0
million (previous year: € 0.5 million). As in the previous year, there were no impairment
expenses that exceeded current depreciation.

Property, plant, and equipment include leased assets (finance leasing) in the amount of
€ 0.8 million (previous year: € 0.7 million).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 157

Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s identifiable cash-generating units (CGUs) according
to the country where the activity is carried out.

Assumptions used in conducting the impairment test in 2016:

Summarized by region, goodwill is allocated as follows:

T.25

T.24

EEA
EEMEA*

Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

17.0%-25.0%

8.0%-8.1%

6.5%-7.0%

28.0%

16.6%

12.7%

17.0%-28.0%

8.0%-16.6%

6.5%-12.7%
6.5%

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

PUMA UK

1.7

1.9

North America*

26.4%

8.1%

PUMA South Africa

2.5

2.1

Latin America

25.5%-35.0%

10.3%-26.9%

8.3%-23.3%

139.4

139.4

Americas

25.5%-35.0%

8.1%-26.9%

6.5%-23.3%

Asia/Pacific

16.5%-30.0%

8.5%-9.5%

7.0%-8.3%

Dobotex
Genesis

7.1

0.0

150.6

143.4

PUMA Canada

10.0

9.4

PUMA Argentina

16.6

16.0

0.5

0.5

10.5

12.0

2.1

2.0

Sub-total Americas

39.7

40.0

PUMA Japan

44.4

41.8

PUMA China

2.5

2.5

PUMA Taiwan

13.2

12.6

60.1

56.9

250.4

240.3

Sub-total EMEA

PUMA Chile
PUMA Mexico
Janed

Sub-total Asia/Pacific
Total

EMEA

*T
 he figures for the EEMEA and North America regions concern only one cash-generating unit
(CGU) each.

The tax rates used for the impairment test correspond to the actual tax rates in the respective countries. The cost of capital (WACC) was derived from observable market data.
In addition, as a rule, a growth rate of 3% is assumed. A growth rate of less than 3% was
used only in justified exceptional cases.
The cash-generating unit ‚Dobotex‘ includes goodwill of € 139.4 million (previous year:
€ 139.4 million), which is significant in comparison to the overall carrying amount of the
goodwill. The cash-generating unit corresponds to a Business Unit of PUMA which is allocated to the Central Unit. The recoverable amount was determined by calculating value in
use, using a discount rate of 6.5% p.a. (previous year: 6.3% p.a.) and a growth rate of 2%
(previous year: 2%).
Sensitivity analyses related to the impairment tests carried out indicate that an increase in
each discount rate of one percentage point and a simultaneous decrease in each growth
rate of one percentage point result in an impairment indication in relation to goodwill and
intangible assets with unlimited or indefinite useful lives in the total amount of € 19.3 million.
Sensitivity analyses with an increase in the discount rate of one percentage point result in

158 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

a total impairment indication of € 5.6 million and sensitivity analyses with a decrease in the
growth rate of one percentage point result in a total impairment indication of € 2.6 million.
The following table contains the assumptions for the performance of the impairment test
in the previous year:

T.26
Tax rate
(range)

WACC before tax
(range)

WACC after tax
(range)

24.5%-25.0%

7.8%-8.4%

6.3%-6.8%

28.0%

16.2%

12.3%

24.5%-28.0%

7.8%-16.2%

6.3%-12.3%

28.3%

8.1%

6.5%

Latin America

18.5%-35.0%

9.4%-27.2%

8.1%-25.6%

Americas

18.5%-35.0%

8.1%-27.2%

6.5%-25.6%

Asia/Pacific

17.0%-30.0%

8.0%-10.3%

6.7%-8.1%

EEA
EEMEA*
EMEA
North America*

* T he figures for the EEMEA and North America regions concern only one cash-generating unit
(CGU) each.

A growth rate of 3% was generally assumed, and a growth rate of under 3% has only been
used in exceptional cases where this is justified.

11. Investments in Associated Companies
The 20.02% interest in Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is shown under investments in associated companies. The carrying amount of the shares is € 16.5 million (previous year: € 15.2
million).
The following overview shows the aggregated benchmark data of the associated companies recognized at equity. The values represent the values based on the entire company
and do not relate to the shares attributable to the PUMA Group.

T.27

Gains relating to continuing operations
Other result
Comprehensive income

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

5.9

4.8

-0.3

0.0

5.6

4.8

PUMA’s share of the net earnings of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. amounts to € 1.2 million
(previous year: € 1.0 million).
The reporting date of Wilderness Holdings Ltd. is February 28, 2017. The above information relates to the company‘s financial information as of December 31.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 159

Sportstyle Manager Southern Europe

“2016 as a whole was a true success moment for PUMA Italy and one of
its most important customers, AW Lab. With the new Women’s
approach, the new Men’s collection, successful planning and great
teamwork, with the different departments, we have been able to turn
around the business to make this a win-win situation for both PUMA
and AW Lab. I am sure this will be the beginning of many more success
stories to come!”

MOMENTUM

Francesco Masci

12. Other Non-current Assets
Other non-current financial and non-financial assets consist of:

T.28
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Non-current investments

24.2

18.5

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

12.9

0.0

Other financial assets

22.6

20.8

Total of other non-current financial assets

59.8

39.3

Other non-current non-financial assets

18.7

25.2

Other non-current assets, total

78.5

64.5

160 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The non-current investments relate to the 5.0% share in Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co.
Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (BVB), which has its headquarters in Dortmund, Germany.
Other financial assets mainly include rental deposits in the amount of € 19.9 million (previous year: €14.2 million). The other non-current non-financial assets mainly include deferrals in connection with promotional and advertising agreements.
In the 2016 financial year, there were no indicators of impairment of other non-current
assets.

13. Liabilities
The residual terms of liabilities are as follows:
T.29
2016

2015

Residual term of

Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from acquisitions

Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

1 to 5 years
€ million

40.1

25.3

14.8

580.6

580.6

5.0

Residual term of
over 5 years
€ million

5.0

Total
€ million

up to 1 year
€ million

14.0

14.0

519.7

519.7

3.0

3.0

1 bis 5 years
€ million

over 5 years
€ million

Other liabilities
33.8

33.8

33.9

33.9

6.7

6.7

6.3

6.3

Liabilities to employees

74.3

74.3

70.7

70.7

Liabilities from market valuation of forward exchange transactions

25.8

24.7

1.1

18.7

18.7

0.7

0.4

0.2

0.5

0.5

53.9

51.5

2.1

0.3

120.2

110.8

9.4

820.8

797.4

23.2

0.3

787.0

777.6

9.4

Liabilities from other taxes
Liabilities relating to social security

Liabilities from finance leases
Other liabilities
Total

PUMA has confirmed credit facilities amounting to a total of € 487.6 million (previous year:
€ 401.7 million). Of the financial liabilities, € 4.6 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) were
claimed from credit facilities only granted until further notice. Unutilized confirmed credit
facilities totaled € 433.1 million on December 31, 2016, compared to € 306.0 million the
previous year.

0.0

The effective interest rate of the financial liabilities ranged between 1.0% and 12.25%
(previous year: 0.6% to 12.2%).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 161

The table below shows the cash flows of the original financial liabilities and of the derivative financial instruments with a positive and negative fair value:
T.30

Current financial liabilities can be repaid at any time.

Cash Flows from non-derivative and derivative Financial Liabilities 2016
Carrying
Amount

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities
Trade payables

Cashflow
2017

2016
€ million

Interest
€ million

40.1

0.2

Cashflow
2018
Repayment
€ million.

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

25.3

0.1

11.8

0.0

3.0

580.6

580.6

Liabilities from finance leases

0.7

0.4

Liabilities from acquisitions

5.0

Other liabilities

44.9

Cashflow
2019 et seq

0.1

0.1
5.0

0.3

Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – inflow
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – outflow

44.8

0.0

1,886.5

345.5

1,835.6

332.1

0.1

The following values were determined in the previous year:
T.31

Cash Flows from non-derivative and derivative Financial Liabilities 2015
Carrying
Amount
2015
€ million

Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities

Cashflow
2016
Interest
million

Cashflow
2017
Repayment
€ million.

14.0

14.0

519.7

519.7

Liabilities from finance leases

0.5

0.5

Liabilities from acquisitions

3.0

3.0

104.2

104.2

Trade payables

Other liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities and assets
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – inflow
Forward exchange transactions with cash flow hedges – outflow

162 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Interest
€ million

Cashflow
2018 et seq
Repayment
€ million

Interest
€ million

Repayment
€ million

7.0

1,491.2

264.8

1,465.1

260.0

14. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet were determined using the following hierarchy:

T.32
Measurement
Categories
under IAS 39
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

Carrying
amount
2016
€ million

Fair Value
2016
€ million

Carrying
amount
2015
€ million

Fair Value
2015
€ million

LAR

326.7

326.7

338.8

338.8

Trade receivables

LAR

499.2

499.2

483.1

483.1

Other current financial assets

LAR

35.2

35.2

25.9

25.9

Derivatives with hedging relationship (fair value) (current and
non-current)

n.a.

91.8

91.8

46.5

46.5

HfT

0.0

0.0

4.5

4.5

LAR

22.6

22.6

20.8

20.8

AfS

24.2

24.2

18.5

18.5

OL

40.1

40.1

14.0

14.0

OL

580.6

580.6

519.7

519.7

OL

5.0

5.0

3.0

3.0

n.a.

0.7

0.7

0.5

0.5

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)
Other non-current financial
assets
Non-current investments
Liabilities
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Liabilities from acquisitions
Liabilities from finance leases
Other financial liabilities

1)

4)

3)

2)

OL

44.9

44.9

104.2

104.2

Derivatives with hedging relationship (fair value) (current and
non-current)

n.a.

25.6

25.6

16.1

16.1

Derivatives without hedging
relationship (fair value)

HfT

0.3

0.3

2.7

2.7

Total LAR

883.7

883.7

868.6

868.6

Total OL

670.6

670.6

640.9

640.9

Total AfS

24.2

24.2

18.5

18.5

1) LAR: Loans and Receivables; 2) OL: Other Liabilities; 3) AfS: Available for Sale; 4) HfT: Held for
Trading

Level 1: U
 se of prices quoted on active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Use of input factors that do not involve the quoted prices stated under Level 1, but
can be observed for the asset or liability either directly (i.e. as price) or indirectly
(i.e. derivation of prices).
Level 3: U
 se of factors for the valuation of the asset or liability that are based on non-observable market data.
The fair value of “available-for-sale” financial assets (AfS) was determined according to
Level 1. The market values of derivative assets or liabilities were determined on the basis
of Level 2.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other assets have a short residual
maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount approximates fair
value. Receivables are stated at nominal value, taking into account deductions for default
risk.
Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount of loans receivable approximates fair value.
The fair values of other financial assets correspond to their carrying amount, taking into
account prevailing market interest rates. Other financial assets include € 22.6 million (previous year: € 25.1 million) that were pledged as rental deposits at usual market rates.
Liabilities to banks can be terminated at any time and thus have a short maturity. Accordingly, as of the reporting date, the carrying amount approximates fair value.
Trade payables have a short residual maturity. The recognized values approximate fair
value.
Pursuant to the contracts entered into, liabilities from acquisitions associated with acquisitions of business enterprises lead to payments. The resulting nominal amounts were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 163

As of the end of the financial year, the market interest rate only affects one company and
is 0.4%.

tions and include both obligations from current pensions and rights to pensions payable in
the future. The pension obligations are financed by both provisions and funds.

The fair values of other financial liabilities are determined based on the present values,
taking into account the prevailing interest rate parameters.

Net income by measurement categories:

The risks associated with the pension obligations mainly concern the usual risks of benefit-based pension plans in relation to possible changes in the discount rate and, to a minor
degree, inflation trends and recipient longevity. In order to limit the risks of changed capital
market conditions and demographic developments, plans with the maximum obligations
were agreed or insured a few years ago in Germany and the UK for new hires. The specific
risk of salary-based obligations is low within the PUMA Group. The introduction in 2016
of an annual ceiling for pensionable salary in the UK plan ensures that this risk is now
covered for the highest obligations. Unlike the previous year, the UK Plan has therefore
been classified as a non-salary obligation.

T.33

T.34

The fair values of derivatives with hedging relationships as of the balance sheet date are
determined taking into account the prevailing market parameters. The discounted result
of the comparison of the forward price on the reporting date with the forward price on the
valuation date is included in the measurement.

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Germany

UK

Other
Companies

PUMA
Group

-8.1

25.6

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

-20.8

-43.9

Derivatives without hedging relationship

1.3

2.1

Present Value of Pension Claims
12/31/2016

Assets held for sale (AfS)

5.7

0.6

Salary-based obligations

-21.9

-15.6

Annuity

0.0

0.0

6.9

6.9

One-off payment

0.0

0.0

5.9

5.9

19.3

41.6

0.0

60.9

6.6

0.0

0.0

6.6

Loans and receivables (LAR)
Other liabilities (OL)

Total

The net income was determined by taking into account interest rates, currency exchange
effects, impairment losses, as well as gains and losses from sales.

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
One-off payment

General administrative expenses include write-downs of receivables.

15. Pension Provisions
Pension provisions result from employees’ claims for benefits, which are based on the
statutory or contractual regulations applicable in the respective country, in the event of
invalidity, death, or when a certain retirement age has been reached. Pension commitments in the PUMA Group include both benefit- and contribution-based pension obliga164 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following values were determined in the previous year:

The changes in the present value of pension claims are as follows:

T.35

T.36
Germany

UK

€ million

€ million

Other
Companies
€ million

PUMA
Group
€ million

Present Value of Pension Claims 12/31/2015

Cost of the pension claims earned in the reporting year

Salary-based obligations

Past service costs

Annuity

0.0

37.9

6.9

44.8

One-off payment

0.0

0.0

5.3

5.3

17.8

0.0

0.0

17.8

6.4

0.0

0.0

6.4

Non-salary-based obligations
Annuity
One-off payment

Present Value of Pension Claims January 1

The main pension regulations are described below:
The general pension regulations of PUMA SE generally provide for pension payments to
a maximum amount of € 127.82 per month and per eligible employee. They have been in
place for new hires since 1996. In addition, PUMA SE provides individual commitments
(fixed sums in different amounts) as well as contribution-based individual commitments
(in part from salary conversion). The contribution-based commitments are insured plans.
There are no statutory minimum funding requirements. The scope of the obligations attributable to domestic pension claims (PUMA SE) at the end of 2016 amounts to € 25.9 million and thus accounts for 32.2% of the total obligation. The fair value of the plan assets
relative to domestic obligations amounts to € 14.1 million. The corresponding pension
provision amounts to € 11.7 million.
The defined benefit plan in the UK has been closed to new hires since 2006. This defined
benefit plan includes salary and length of service-based commitments to provide retirement, invalidity and surviving dependents’ pension benefits. In 2016, a growth ceiling of 1%
p.a. on pensionable salary was introduced. Partial capitalization of the retirement pension
is permitted.¬ There are statutory minimum funding requirements. The obligations regarding pension claims under the defined benefit plan in the UK amount to € 41.6 million at the
end of 2016 and thus account for 51.8% of the total obligation. The obligation is covered by
assets amounting to € 31.4 million. The provision amounts to €10.3 million.

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

74.3

70.9

2.3

2.7

-2.3

-0.1

(Profits) and losses from settlements

0.0

0.0

Interest expense on pension claims

2.1

2.3

Employee contributions

0.2

0.3

-3.0

-2.3

Effects from transfers

-0.4

-1.2

Actuarial (gains) and losses

13.1

-1.0

Benefits paid

Currency exchange effects

-6.0

2.7

Present Value of Pension Claims December 31

80.3

74.3

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

The changes in the plan assets are as follows:

T.37

Plan Assets January 1

50.7

45.0

Interest income on plan assets

1.5

1.6

Actuarial gains and (losses)

1.7

0.8

Employer contributions

1.9

2.3

Employee contributions

0.2

0.3

Benefits paid

-2.0

-1.6

Effects from transfers

-0.3

0.0

Currency exchange effects

-5.0

2.3

Plan Assets December 31

48.7

50.7

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 165

The pension provision for the Group is derived as follows:

The expenses in the 2016 financial year are structured as follows:

T.38

T.40
2016
€ million

Present value of pension claims from benefit plans
Fair value of plan assets
Financing Status
Amounts not recorded due to the maximum limit applicable to
assets
Pension Provision December 31

2015
€ million

2016
€ million

80.3

74.3

-48.7

-50.7

31.6
0.0

23.6
0.0

31.6

23.6

Interest income on plan assets

In 2016, benefits paid amounted to € 3.0 million (previous year: € 2.3 million). Payments in
2017 are expected to amount to € 1.8 million. Of this amount, € 1.0 million is expected to
be paid directly by the employer. In 2016, contributions to external plan assets amounted
to € 1.9 million (previous year: € 2.3 million). Contributions in 2017 are expected to amount
to € 1.7 million.
The changes in pension provisions are as follows:

Cost of the pension claims earned in the reporting year

2015
€ million

2.3

2.7

-2.3

-0.1

Income (-) and expense from plan settlements

0.0

0.0

Interest expense on pension claims

2.1

2.3

-1.5

-1.6

Administration costs

0.1

0.1

Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans

0.7

3.4

of which personnel costs

0.1

2.7

of which financial costs

0.6

0.7

Past service costs

Actuarial gains and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive Income:

T.41

T.39
Revaluation of Pension Commitments

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

0.0

-1.0

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

-2.2

23.6

25.9

Actuarial gains (-) and losses resulting from changes in
demographic assumptions

-0.7

Pension Provision January 1
Pension expense
Actuarial (gains) and losses recorded in Other Comprehensive
Income:
Employer contributions

0.6
11.4

3.4
-1.7

Actuarial gains (-) and losses resulting from changes in
financial assumptions

13.3

0.8

-1.9

-2.3

Actuarial gains (-) and losses due to adjustments based on
experience

0.5

0.4

Direct pension payments made by the employer

-0.9

-0.9

Transfer values

-0.2

-1.2

-1.7

-0.8
0.0

-1.0

0.4

Amounts not recorded due to the maximum limit applicable to
assets

0.0

Currency exchange differences
Pension Provision December 31

31.6

23.6

Adjustment of administration costs

0.0

0.1

0.0

0.2

11.4

-1.7

31.6

23.8

of which assets
of which liabilities

166 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Revaluation of Plan Assets

Total Revaluation Amounts Recorded Directly in Other
Comprehensive Income

chosen; in other countries (for example Germany), they can be chosen freely. In the UK,
a board of trustees made up of Company representatives and employees is in charge of
asset management. Its investment strategy is aimed at long-term profits and low volatility.

Plan asset investment classes:

T.42
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Cash and cash equivalents

0.1

0.1

Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

12.4

12.4

Investment funds

17.2

19.6

3.7

4.2

14.2

13.1

1.0

1.2

48.7

50.7

Real estate
Insurance
Other
Total Plan Assets

The following assumptions were used to determine pension obligations and pension
expenses:

T.44
2016

2015

Discount rate

2.18%

3.11%

Future pension increases

2.46%

2.35%

Future salary increases

1.50%

4.00%

Of which investment classes with a quoted market price:

The indicated values are weighted average values. A standard interest rate of 1.25% was
applied for the euro zone (previous year: 2.00%).

T.43

The following overview shows how the present value of pension claims from benefit plans
would have been affected by changes to significant actuarial assumptions.
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Cash and cash equivalents

0.2

0.1

Equity instruments

0.1

0.1

Bonds

12.4

12.4

Investment funds

16.9

19.4

Real estate

3.4

3.9

Insurance

0.0

0.0

Other
Plan Assets with a Quoted Market Price

1.0

0.0

34.0

35.9

As in previous years, plan assets do not include the Group’s own financial instruments or
real estate used by Group companies.

T.45
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

the discount rate were 50 basis points higher

-7.4

-6.4

the discount rate were 50 basis points lower

6.3

5.6

Effect on present value of pension claims if

Salary and pension trends have only a negligible effect on the present value of pension
claims due to the structure of the benefit plans.
The weighted average duration of pension commitments is 20 years.

The plan assets are used exclusively to fulfill defined pension commitments. Legal requirements exist in some countries for the type and amount of financial resources that can be
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 167

16. Other Provisions

17. Liabilities from the Acquisition of Business Entities

T.46
2015

2016
Currency
adjustments,
retransfers

Addition

Utilization

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

€ million

8.5

0.2

7.9

-3.9

-0.2

12.6

Pursuant to the contracts entered into, liabilities from acquisitions associated with acquisitions of business enterprises lead to payments. The resulting nominal amounts were discounted at a reasonable market interest rate, depending on the expected date of payment.

Reversal

The existing liabilities from acquistions relate to the acquisition of Genesis Group International Ltd. (previous year: PUMA Taiwan Sports Ltd.) and consist of:

Provisions for:
Warranties

7.5

0.0

8.3

-7.0

-0.4

8.5

Other

60.2

4.1

26.2

-23.3

-2.5

64.8

Total

76.2

4.4

42.5

-34.1

-3.0

85.9

Purchasing risks

The warranty provision is determined on the basis of the historical value of sales generated during the past six months. It is expected that the majority of these expenses will fall
due within the first six months of the next financial year. The warranty provision includes
€ 1.9 million in non-current provisions (previous year: € 3.7 million).
Purchasing risks relate primarily to materials and molds that are required for the manufacturing of shoes. The provision will probably result in a payment in the following year.
Other provisions consist of risks associated with legal disputes in the amount of € 28.7
million (previous year: € 27.8 million) and provisions for anticipated losses from pending
business and other risks in the amount of € 36.1 million (previous year: € 32.4 million).
Non-current provisions totaling € 27.9 million (previous year: € 19.8 million) are included
in other provisions.

168 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

T.47
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Due within one year

0.0

3.0

Due in more than one year

5.0

0.0

Total

5.0

3.0

18. Shareholders’ Equity
Subscribed Capital
The subscribed capital corresponds to the subscribed capital of PUMA SE. As of the
balance sheet date, the subscribed capital amounted to € 38.6 million and is divided into
15,082,464 bearer shares. Each no-par-value share corresponds to € 2.56 of the subscribed capital (share capital).
Changes in the circulating shares:

T.48
2016

2015

Circulating Shares as of January

Share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Conversion from Management Incentive Program

Share

0

0

Share buy-back

Share

0

0

Circulating Shares as of December 31

Share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Capital Reserve
The capital reserve includes the premium from issuing shares, as well as amounts from
the grant, conversion and expiration of share options.

Retained Earnings and Net Profit
Retained earnings and net profit include the net income of the financial year as well as the
income of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements achieved in the
past to the extent that it was not distributed.

Reserve from the Difference Resulting From Currency Conversion
The equity item for currency conversion serves to record the differences from the conversion of the financial statements of subsidiaries with non-Euro accounting compared to the
date of first consolidation of the subsidiaries.

Cash Flow Hedges
The “cash flow hedges” item includes the market valuation of derivative financial instruments. The item totaling € 54.3 million (previous year: € 21.2 million) is adjusted for
deferred taxes in the amount of € -0.5 million (previous year: € -5.3 million).

Treasury Stock
The resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting on May 6, 2015 authorized the
company to purchase treasury shares up to a value of ten percent of the share capital until
May 5, 2020. If purchased through the stock exchange, the purchase price per share may
not exceed or fall below 10% of the closing price for the Company’s shares with the same
attributes in the XETRA trading system (or a comparable successor system) during the
last three trading days prior to the date of purchase.

A) B
 y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions. The new shares can also be acquired
by one or several banks as determined by the Administrative Board, subject to the
obligation to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription
right). The shareholders are basically entitled to a subscription right, whereby the
shareholders’ subscription rights may be excluded to prevent fractional amounts
(Authorized Capital I).
B) B
 y issuing up to € 7.5 million worth of up to 2,929,687 new no-par bearer shares
on one or more occasions with a pro-rata amount of the share capital of € 2.56 per
share in exchange for cash contributions or contributions in kind. The new shares
can also be acquired by one or several banks as determined by the Administrative
Board, subject to the obligation to offer these to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). Shareholders have in principle subscription rights
whereby the shareholders’ subscription rights may be wholly or partially excluded
to avoid fractional shares (Subscribed Capital II).

Dividends
The amounts eligible for distribution relate to the net income of PUMA SE, which is determined in accordance with German Commercial Law.
The Managing Directors recommend to the Administrative Board and the Annual General
Meeting that a dividend of € 0.75 per circulating share, or a total of € 11.2 million (with
respect to the circulating shares as of December 31), be distributed to the shareholders
from the net income of PUMA SE for the 2016 financial year. This corresponds to a payout
ratio of 18.0% relative to consolidated net income compared to 20.2% in the previous year.

The Company did not make use of the authorization to purchase treasury stock during the
reporting period. As of the balance sheet date, the Company continues to hold a total of
142,551 PUMA shares in its own portfolio, which corresponds to 0.95% of the subscribed
capital.

Authorized Capital
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated April 24, 2012, the Administrative Board is authorized to increase the share capital by April 23, 2017 as follows:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 169

Appropriation of the Net Income of PUMA SE:

19. Equity Compensation Plans/Management Incentive Program

T.49

In order to provide long-term incentives and thereby retain the management staff in the
Company, PUMA uses share-based compensation systems in the form of stock option
programs (SOP) and in the form of virtual shares with cash compensation.

2016

2015

Net income of PUMA SE as of December 31

€ million

205.5

134.3

Net income eligible for distribution

€ million

205.5

134.3

€

0.75

0.50

Shares

14,939,913

14,939,913

Total dividend *

€ million

11.2

7.5

Carried forward to the new accounting period *

€ million

194.3

126.8

Dividends per share
Number of circulating shares *

* Previous year’s values adjusted to the outcome of the Annual General Meeting

Non-controlling Interests
The non-controlling interest remaining as of the balance sheet date relates to the company PUMA Accessories North America, LLC (formerly: PUMA Wheat Accessories, Ltd)
at € 1.1 million (previous year: € -0.5 million) and Janed, LLC at € 11.9 million (previous
year: € 7.2 million), PUMA Kids Apparel North America, LLC at € 0.6 million (previous year:
€1.3 million), Janed Canada, LLC at € 0.8 million and PUMA Kids Apparel Canada, LLC
at € 0.9 million.

Capital Management
The Group’s objective is to retain a strong equity base in order to maintain both investor
and market confidence and to strengthen future business performance.
Capital management relates to the consolidated equity of PUMA. This is shown in the consolidated balance sheet as well as the reconciliation statement concerning “Changes in
Equity.”

The current programs are described below:

Explanation of “SOP”
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of April 22, 2008, a stock option
program, “SOP 2008”, was accepted in the form of a “Performance Share Program”. Conditional capital was created for this purpose and the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management of PUMA AG (as of July 25, 2011 change of form into SE) were authorized
to grant subscription rights to the members of the Board of Management and other executives of the Company and of affiliated subsidiary companies for five years (after the registration of the conditional capital in the commercial register), but for at least three months
after the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The term of the subscription rights issued and to be issued is five years and these subscription rights can be exercised after two years at the earliest, provided, however, that the
price of the PUMA share has increased by at least 20% as of the date granted. In contrast
to traditional stock option programs, the equivalent amount of the increase in value of the
PUMA share since the date granted is serviced with shares, whereby the beneficiary pays
an option price of € 2.56 per share granted if the share was issued as part of a capital
increase. If employees leave the company, then their options rights expire.
Furthermore, pursuant to the authorization, the Administrative Board, in accordance with
the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code, may limit, fully or partially, the
scope and contents of subscription rights issued to the company’s managing directors in
the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments. This option is also available to the
Board of Management with respect to the other executives concerned.
The programs were valued using a binomial model or a Monte Carlo simulation.

170 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Pursuant to Section 5 of the Option Terms and Conditions, every year the options are
subject to a vesting period from December 15 for up to ten trading days after the Annual
General Meeting. Accordingly, no options can be exercised as of the reporting date.

The following parameters were used to determine the fair value

T.50

SOP
2008
2008
2008
2008
2008
Tranche I Tranche II Tranche III Tranche IV Tranche V

Share price as of the date granted

€ 199.27

€ 147.27

€ 250.50

€ 199.95

€ 265.00

Expected volatility

29.1 %

47.7 %

34.5 %

29.2 %

26.8 %

Expected dividend payment

1.50 %

2.31 %

1.30 %

1.30 %

0.8%

Risk-free interest rate, former members of the Board of Management/
current Managing Directors

4.60%

1.97%

1.60%

2.40%

0.3%

Risk-free interest rate, executive staff

4.60 %

1.97 %

1.60 %

2.40 %

0.3 %

The historical volatility during the year prior to the date of valuation was used to determine
the expected volatility.
Changes in the “SOP” during the financial year:

T.51

SOP
2008
2008
2008
2008
2008
Tranche I Tranche II Tranche III Tranche IV Tranche V

Issue date

7/21/2008

4/14/2009

4/22/2010

4/15/2011

4/30/2012

113,000

139,002

126,184

151,290

145,375

Exercise price

€ 0.00

€ 0.00

€ 2.56

€ 2.56

€ 2.56

Residual term

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.00 years

0.33 years

Amount issued

Circulating as of 1/1/2016

0

0

0

101,463

106,969

Exercised

0

0

0

0

0

Ø Share price when exercised

€ 220.83

€ 214.57

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Expired

0

0

0

-101,463

-8,485

Circulating as of 12/31/2016

0

0

0

0

98,484

Exercisable options as of the reporting
date

0

0

0

0

0

As of the date of allocation, the average fair value per option is € 49.44 for “Tranche
I– 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of
the Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 53.49 for “Tranche
II – 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of
the Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 61.81 for “Tranche
III – 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period, there are no expenses for the current
financial year. Of the options in circulation, 0 options belong to the previous members of
the Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 40.14 for “Tranche IV –
2008”. Taking into account the vesting period and the forfeitures, there are no expenses
for the current financial year. A total of 0 options belong to the previous members of the
Board of Management of PUMA AG or the current Managing Directors at the end of the
year.
Pursuant to the allocation, the average fair value per option was € 44.59 for “Tranche V
– 2008”. Taking into account the vesting period and the forfeitures, there are no expenses for the current financial year. A total of 4,484 options belong to the current Managing
Directors at the end of the year.

Explanation of “virtual shares” (monetary units)
In the 2013 financial year, the Company began to grant “monetary units” on an annual
basis as part of a management incentive program. In this context, monetary units are
based on the performance of the PUMA and Kering shares. Each of these monetary

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 171

units entitles the bearer to a cash payment at the end of the term. This payment depends
on the year-end price of the PUMA share that is determined (component 1), which has a
70% weighting, and on the year-end price of the Kering share (component 2), which has
a 30% weighting. Component 1 compares success with the rights to the average virtual
value increase of the last 30 days of the previous year. Component 2, on the other hand,
measures the success by comparing the development of the Kering share with the average development of a reference portfolio of the luxury and sports sector over the same
period. Monetary units are subject to a vesting period of three years. After that, there is
an exercise period of two years (in the period from April to October) which can be freely
used by participants for the purposes of execution. The fundamental exercise condition
after the vesting period is the existence of an active employment relationship with PUMA.
In the 2016 financial year, an expense of € 2.1 million was formed for this purpose on the
basis of the contractual commitments to the Managing Directors.

T.52

Virtual Shares (Monetary Units)

Issue date

1/1/2013

1/1/2014

1/1/2015

1/1/2016

Term

Years

5

5

5

5

Vesting period

Years

3

3

3

3

Base price of Component 1

EUR/share

224.00

173.86

199.47

200.00

Base price of Component 2

EUR/share

152.00

144.00

167.00

166.00

Benchmark component 1 as of the end of the
financial year

EUR/share

240.20

240.20

240.20

240.20

Benchmark component 2 as of the end of the
financial year

EUR/share

200.00

200.00

125.30

114.70

Participants in year of issue

People

4

3

3

3

Participants as of the end of the financial year

People

2

3

3

3

Number of component 1 monetary units as of
January 1, 2016

Shares

1,915

3,799

3,556

3,252

Number of component 1 monetary units
exercised in the financial year

Shares

-395

0

0

0

Final number of component 1 monetary units
as of December 31, 2016

Shares

1,520

3,799

3,556

3,252

Number of component 2 monetary units as of
January 1, 2016

Shares

3,031

5,501

7,965

6,300

Number of component 2 monetary units
exercised in the financial year

Shares

-625

0

0

0

Final number of component 2 monetary units
as of December 31, 2016

Shares

2,406

5,501

7,965

6,300

This commitment consisting of share-based remuneration transactions with cash compensation is recorded as personnel provisions and revalued on every balance sheet date
at fair value. Expenses are likewise recorded over the vesting period. Based on the market
price on the balance sheet date, the provision for the two programs amounted to a total of
€ 4.9 million at the end of the financial year.

172 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Explanation of the “Game Changer 2017” program

Other operating income and expenses are allocated based on functional areas as follows:

In addition, another long-term incentive program called “Game Changer 2017” was
launched in 2014. Participants in this program consist mainly of top executives who report
to the Managing Directors, as well as individual key functions in the PUMA Group. The
goal of this program is to bind this group of employees to the Company in the long term
and to allow them to participate in the medium-term success of the Company.

T.53

Sales and distribution expenses

The duration of the program is three years and is based on the medium-term objectives
of the PUMA Group in terms of EBIT (70%), working capital (15%), and gross profit margin (15%). For the program, a corresponding provision is recognized each year when the
respective currency-adjusted targets are met. The credits accumulated in this way will
then be paid out to the participants in March 2017. The payment is subject to the condition
that the participant is in an unterminated employment relationship with a company of the
PUMA Group as of December 31, 2016. In the reporting year, € 0.5 million was allocated
for this program.

Product management/merchandising
Research and development
Administrative and general expenses
Other operating expenses
Other operating income
Total
Of which scheduled depreciation
Of which impairment expenses

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

1,182.4

1,140.4

41.7

37.5

52.0

56.7

269.3

249.8

1,545.4

1,484.4

0.9

23.9

1,544.5

1,460.5

59.9

57.5

0.0

0.0

Explanation of the “Game Changer 2018” program
In 2015, the “Game Changer 2018” program was launched, which is subject to the same
parameters as the “Game Changer 2017” program. In the reporting year, € 0.8 million was
allocated for this program.

Explanation of the “Game Changer 2019” program
In 2016, the “Game Changer 2019” program was launched, which is subject to the same
parameters as the “Game Changer 2017” program. In the reporting year, € 1.0 million was
allocated for this program.

20. Other Operating Income and Expenses
According to the respective functions, other operating income and expenses include personnel, advertising, sales and distribution expenses as well as rental and leasing expenditure, travel costs, legal and consulting expenses and other general expenses. Typical
operating income that is associated with operating expenses was offset. Rental and lease
expenses associated with the Group’s own retail stores include sales-dependent rental
components.

Within the sales and distribution expenses, marketing/retail expenses account for a large
proportion of the operating expenses. In addition to advertising and promotional expenses, they also include expenses associated with the Group’s own retail activities. Other
sales and distribution expenses include warehousing expenses and other variable sales
and distribution expenses.
Administrative and general expenses include expenses for the statutory auditor of PUMA
SE in the amount of € 0.9 million (previous year: € 0.8 million). Of this, € 0.8 million is allocated to auditing expenses (previous year: € 0.7 million) and € 0.1 million to tax advisory
services (previous year: € 0.1 million).
Other operating income includes income from the allocation of development costs in the
amount of € 0.7 million (previous year: € 6.1 million) and other income in the amount of
€ 0.2 million (previous year: € 17.8 million).

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 173

21. Financial Result

Overall, other operating expenses include personnel costs, which consist of:

This financial result consists of:

T.54
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

398.9

387.1

50.7

50.2

Expenses from share-based remuneration with compensation
in shares

0.0

0.0

Expenses from share-based remuneration with compensation
in cash

2.1

Wages and salaries
Social security contributions

Expenses for retirement pension and other personnel expenses
Total

1.9

41.3

44.6

493.1

483.8

In addition, cost of sales includes personnel costs in the amount of € 15.3 million (previous
year: € 20.7 million).
The annual average number of employees was as follows:

Product development/design
Administrative and general units
Total annual average

Income from Associated Companies

2015
€ million

1.2

1.0

10.5

11.2

-13.4

-14.4

0.0

-0.1

Valuation of pension plans

-0.6

-0.7

Expenses from currency conversion differences, net

-6.4

-8.2

-20.4

-23.4

-8.7

-11.2

Financial Income
Interest expense
Interest accrued on liabilities from acquisitions

Financial Expenses
Financial Result

Financial income includes exclusively interest income.
2016

2015

7,527

7,367

882

866

2,719

2,755

11,128

10,988

As of the end of the year, a total of 11,495 individuals were employed (previous year:
11,351).

174 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2016
€ million

Income from associated companies results exclusively from the shareholding in Wilderness Holdings Ltd. (see also paragraph 11).

T.55
Marketing/retail/sales

T.56

Interest expenses result from financial liabilities as well as financial instruments.
Moreover, the financial result includes a total of € 6.4 million in expenses from currency
conversion differences (previous year: income of € 8.2 million), which are attributable to
financing activities.

22. Income Taxes

The tax effect resulting from items that are directly credited or debited to equity is shown
directly in the statement of comprehensive income.

T.57

Other effects includes withholding tax expenses of € 11.0 million (previous year: € 11.4
million).

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

3.5

26.5

Current income taxes
Germany
Other countries

23. Earnings per Share

34.8

25.0

The earnings per share are determined in accordance with IAS 33 by dividing the con-

Total current income taxes

38.3

51.5

solidated annual surplus (consolidated net earnings) attributable to the shareholder of the

Deferred taxes

-7.8

-28.2

Total

30.5

23.3

parent company by the average number of circulating shares. Potential shares from the
management incentive program may lead to a dilution of this indicator (see paragraph 19).

In general, PUMA SE and its German subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax,
plus a solidarity surcharge and trade tax. Thus, a weighted mixed tax rate of 27.22% continued to apply for the financial year.

The calculation is shown in the table below:

Reconciliation of the theoretical tax expense with the effective tax expense:

T.59
2016
Net earnings

T.58
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

118.9

Theoretical tax expense
Tax rate of the SE = 27.22% (previous year: 27.22%)
Taxation difference with respect to other countries

2015

€ million

62.4

37.1

Average number of circulating shares

Share

14,939,913

14,939,913

Diluted number of shares

Share

14,939,913

14,939,913

85.0

Earnings per share

€

4.17

2.48

32.4

23.1

Earnings per share, diluted

€

4.17

2.48

-8.1

-12.6

1.9

4.9

Losses and temporary differences for which no tax claims
were recognized

5.0

9.8

Changes in tax rate

0.1

0.3

-0.8

-2.2

Earnings Before Income Tax

Other tax effects:
Income tax for previous years

Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income and other
effects
Effective Tax Expense
Effective tax rate

30.5

23.3

25.7%

27.5%

24. Management of the Currency Risk
In the 2016 financial year, PUMA designated “forward purchase USD” currency derivatives as cash flow hedges in order to hedge the amount payable of purchases denominated in USD, which is converted to euros.
The nominal amounts of open rate-hedging transactions, which relate mainly to cash flow
hedges, refer to currency forward transactions in a total amount of € 1,850.6 million (preCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 175

vious year: € 1,491.2 million). Cash flows for these underlying transactions are expected
in 2017 and 2018. For further details, please refer to the explanatory note under paragraph
13.

Currency forward contracts used to hedge against payment fluctuations caused by
exchange rates are part of an effective cash-flow hedging relationship pursuant to IAS 39.
Changes in the exchange rate of the currencies underlying these contracts have an effect
on the hedge reserve in equity and the fair value of these hedging contracts.

The market values of open rate-hedging transactions on the balance sheet date consist of:
If, as of December 31, 2016, the USD had appreciated (devalued) against all other currencies by 10%, the hedge reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging contracts would
have been € 106.2 million higher (lower) (December 31, 2015: € 105.5 million higher (lower)).

T.60
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Forward currency contracts, liabilities (see paragraphs 6 and 12)

91.8

51.0

Forward currency contracts, liabilities (see paragraphs 13 and 14)

-25.8

-18.7

66.0

32.3

Net

The changes in effective cash flow hedges are shown in the schedule of changes in
shareholders’ equity and the statement of comprehensive income.
In order to disclose market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects
of hypothetical changes in relevant risk variables on earnings and equity. The periodic
effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes caused by the risk variables
to the balance of the financial instruments held as of the balance sheet date. The underlying assumption is that the balance as of the balance sheet date is representative for the
entire year.
Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on account of financial instruments being
denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and is monetary in nature.
Differences resulting from the conversion of the individual financial statements to the
Group currency are not taken into account. All non-functional currencies in which PUMA
employs financial instruments are generally considered to be relevant risk variables.
Currency sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions:
Material primary monetary financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, receivables,
interest-bearing debt, liabilities from finance leases, non-interest-bearing liabilities) are
either denominated directly in the functional currency or transferred into the functional
currency through the use of currency forward contracts.
176 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Currency risks are discussed in greater detail in the Group Management Report under the
Risk Management section.

25. Segment Reporting
Segment reporting is based on geographical regions in accordance with our internal
reporting structure. Sales revenues and operating results (EBIT) are shown according
to the head office of the respective Group company of the corresponding region. The
inter-company sales of the respective region are eliminated. The allocation of the remaining segment information is also determined on the basis of the respective Group company’s head office. The totals equal the amounts at the time in the income statement and
the balance sheet.
The regions are subdivided into EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), Americas (North
and Latin America), and Asia/Pacific.
The segments’ internal sales are generated on the basis of market prices. They are not
considered in the representation, as they are not relevant for controlling.
Due to a change in internal reporting in connection with the presentation of intercompany
allocations, there has been a shift in profitability between the individual regions and the
Central Unit. The previous year’s figures for the operating result (EBIT) have been adjusted accordingly. The remaining segment figures are not affected by the change.
Investments and depreciation/amortization relate to additions and depreciation/amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets during the current financial

year. As in the previous year, no total impairment expenses were taken into account in the
segments.
Since PUMA is active in only one business area, the sports equipment industry, products
are allocated according to the footwear, apparel and accessories product segments in
accordance with the internal reporting structure. According to this reporting structure,
except the allocation of sales revenue and of the gross profit there is no other allocation of
the operating result as well as of the asset and liability items.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 177

Business segments 1-12/2016
T.61

Region
External Sales

EBIT

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

EMEA

1,281.4

1,165.8

Americas

1,218.5

1,191.4

Asia/Pacific

733.7

Central units/consolidation*
Total

T.62

Investments
1-12 / 2015
€ million

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

145.7

118.6

27.2

30.8

166.0

137.4

20.1

25.4

652.6

113.7

105.6

17.3

12.5

393.0

377.6

-297.7

-265.4

19.7

10.5

3,626.7

3,387.4

127.6

96.3

84.3

79.2

Region
Depreciation

Inventories

Trade Receivables

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

EMEA

13.3

12.1

281.9

280.0

173.0

159.7

Americas

15.5

15.8

247.1

201.8

176.1

160.9

Asia/Pacific

12.8

10.7

115.1

97.7

79.5

91.5

Central units/consolidation*

18.2

18.9

74.8

77.5

70.5

71.0

Total

59.9

57.5

718.9

657.0

499.2

483.1

* includes CPG (Cobra PUMA Golf Business), Brandon, Dobotex, sports merchandising, sourcing and central office functions

178 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

T.63

27. Contingencies and Contingent Liabilities

Product
External Sales

Contingencies

Gross Profit Margin

As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingencies.

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

Footwear

1,627.0

1,506.1

42.5%

41.2%

Apparel

1,333.2

1,244.8

48.4%

49.3%

666.5

636.4

47.9%

48.0%

3,626.7

3,387.4

45.7%

45.5%

1 – 12 / 2016
€ million

1-12 / 2015
€ million

127.6

96.3

-8.7

-11.2

118.9

85.0

Accessories
Total

T.64

Transition to EBT

EBIT
Financial Result
EBT

26. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
The cash flow statement was prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and is structured based
on cash flows from operating, investment and financing activities. The indirect method is
used to determine the cash outflow/inflow from ongoing operating activities. The gross
cash flow, derived from earnings before income tax and adjusted for non-cash income
and expense items, is determined within the cash flow from ongoing operating activities.¬
Cash inflows/outflows from operating activities, reduced by investments in property, plant
and equipment as well as intangible assets is referred to as “free cash flow”.
The financial resource fund reported in the cash flow statement includes all payment
methods and equivalent payment methods shown under “Cash and cash equivalents”, i.e.
cash in hand, checks, and current bank balances.

Contingent Liabilities
As in the previous year, there were no reportable contingent liabilities.

28. Other Financial Obligations
Obligations from Operating Leases
The Group rents and leases offices, warehouses, facilities, fleets of vehicles and sales
rooms for its own retail business. Rental agreements for the retail business are concluded
for terms of between five and fifteen years. The remaining rental and lease agreements
typically have residual terms of between one and five years. Some agreements include
options of renewal and price adjustment clauses.
Total expenses resulting from these agreements amounted in 2016 to € 149.9 million
(previous year: € 143.3 million) of which € 16.2 million (previous year: € 15.9 million) were
dependent on sales.
As of the balance sheet date, the obligations from future minimum rental payments for
operating lease agreements are as follows:

T.65
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

2017 (2016)

124.3

119.6

2018 – 2021 (2017 – 2020)

267.5

253.4

from 2022 (from 2021)

117.3

124.9

Under rental and lease agreements:

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 179

Further Other Financial Obligations
Furthermore, the Company has other financial obligations associated with license, promotional and advertising agreements, which give rise to the following financial obligations as
of the balance sheet date:

T.66
2016
€ million

2015
€ million

2017 (2016)

155.4

157.4

2018 – 2021 (2017 – 2020)

295.5

366.3

34.2

68.4

Under license, promotional and advertising agreements:

from 2022 (from 2021)

As is customary in the industry, the promotional and advertising agreements provide
for additional payments on reaching pre-defined goals (e.g. medals, championships).
Although these are contractually agreed upon, they naturally cannot be exactly foreseen
in terms of their timing and amount.
In addition, there are other financial obligations totaling € 7.2 million, of which € 3.0 million
relate to the years from 2017. These include service agreements of € 6.6 million and other
obligations of € 0.6 million.

29. Managing Directors and Administrative Board
Disclosures pursuant to Section 314 (1)(6) of the HGB (German Commercial Code)
In accordance with the Act on Disclosure of Management Board Compensation of August 3,
2005, the disclosure of the individual earnings of the members of the Board of Management
and Managing Directors may be dispensed with for a period of 5 years pursuant to Section 286
(5); Section 285(9)(a) sentences 5 - 8; Section 314 (2)(2); Section 314 (1)(6)(a) sentences 5 - 8
of the HGB, if the Annual General Meeting passes a resolution in this regard by a 75% majority.
Pursuant to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting of May 7, 2013, the Company
was authorized to refrain from disclosures pursuant to Section 285(9)(a) sentences 5 - 8
180 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

and Section 314 (1)(6)(a) sentences 5-8 of the HGB with respect to the financial year
beginning on January 1, 2013 and all subsequent financial years ending December 31,
2017 at the latest.
The Managing Directors and the Administrative Board are of the opinion that the shareholders‘ justified interest in information is sufficiently accounted for by the disclosure of the
total compensation of the Managing Directors. The Administrative Board will ensure that
individual compensation is appropriate in accordance with its statutory duties.

The Managing Directors
The compensation of the Managing Directors, which is determined by the Administrative
Board, consists of non-performance-based and performance-based components. The
non-performance-based components consist of a fixed salary and non-cash compensation, whereas the performance-based components consist of bonuses and components
with a long-term incentive effect. Along with job assignments and performance of each
individual Managing Director, the criteria for calculating the total remuneration are the
economic situation, long-term strategic planning and related targets, the long-term durability of targeted results and the Company‘s long-term prospects.
A fixed salary is paid out monthly as non-performance-based basic compensation. In
addition, the Managing Directors receive non-cash compensation, such as company cars,
pension contributions and insurance premiums. In principle, these benefits are granted to
all Managing Directors in an equal manner and are included in the non-performance-based
compensation.
The bonus component of performance-related compensation is mainly based on the
PUMA Group‘s operating income (EBIT) and free cash flow and is staggered according
to the degree to which targets are met. In addition, qualitative individual goals are set. An
upper limit is also agreed.
The previous performance-based compensation component with a long-term incentive
effect (stock appreciation rights) as part of a stock option plan was not granted beyond the
2012 financial year. The existing options can be exercised until the end of April 2017 if the
exercise criteria are met. Details on the parameters used for the respective programs are
provided in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pro-rata provisions totaling € 2.1 million (previous year: € 1.9 million) were set up for the
compensation program in place in the 2016 financial year (virtual shares/monetary units)
with long-term incentives (from the years 2013 to 2016) for Managing Directors. Under the
performance-based program, 70% of the compensation will be based on the medium-term
performance of PUMA SE’s share and 30% will be based on the medium-term performance
of Kering SA’s share in relation to benchmark companies. Further information on this program can be found in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

found in Section 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The fixed compensation for the three Managing Directors amounted to € 1.9 million in the
financial year (previous year: € 1.9 million) and variable bonuses came to € 2.5 million
(previous year: € 1.5 million). Non-cash compensation totaled € 0.1 million (previous year:
€ 0.1 million).

In accordance with the Articles of Association, each member of the Administrative Board
receives a fixed annual compensation in the amount of € 25.0 thousand. The fixed compensation is increased by an additional fixed annual amount of € 25.0 thousand for the
Chairman of the Administrative Board, € 12.5 thousand for the Vice-Chairman of the
Administrative Board, € 10.0 thousand for each committee chairman (excluding the Nominating Committee) and € 5.0 thousand for each committee member (excluding the Nominating Committee).

The Managing Directors receive pension benefits, for which the Company took out a pension liability insurance policy. The proportion of the pension capital that is already financed
through contributions to the pension liability insurance is deemed to be vested. During the
financial year, € 0.4 million was allocated for Managing Directors (previous year: € 0.4
million). The present value of the pension benefits granted to active Managing Directors
in the amount of € 2.6 million as of December 31, 2016 (previous year: € 1.7 million) was
offset against the pledged asset value of the pension liability insurance policy, which was
of an equal amount.
Pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management, their widows and
Managing Directors amounted to € 13.6 million (previous year: € 13.3 million) and are
accordingly recognized as liabilities under pension provisions, unless they are offset
against asset values of an equal amount. Pensions paid totaled € 0.2 million (previous
year: € 0.2 million).
In 2016, a long-term incentive program, Game Changer 2019, was introduced for senior
management and strategically important employee that will allow this group of employees to participate in PUMA SE’s earnings over the medium term. € 1.2 million has been
set aside for this program. An additional € 1.0 million was set aside for the predecessor
program Game Changer 2018 (Tranche 2) (previous year: € 1.0 million) and an additional
€ 0.7 million was set aside for the program Game Changer 2017 (Tranche 3) (previous
year: € 0.8 million) in the reporting period. Further information on this program can be

Administrative Board
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Administrative Board has at least three
members; it currently consists of nine members. The compensation of the Administrative
Board is comprised of a fixed and a performance-based component. The total fixed compensation amounted to € 0.3 million (previous year: € 0.3 million).

In addition, each Administrative Board member receives performance-based compensation equal to € 20.00 for each € 0.01 by which the earnings per share figure exceeds a minimum amount of € 16.00 per share. The performance-based compensation amounts to a
maximum of € 10.0 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Administrative Board receives
twice this amount (maximum € 20.0 thousand) and the Vice Chairman receives one and
a half times this amount (maximum € 15.0 thousand) in compensation. Since earnings
per share are below the minimum amount in the financial year, no performance-based
compensation will be paid.

30. Related Party Relationships
In accordance with IAS 24, relationships to related companies and parties that control
or are controlled by the PUMA Group must be reported, unless such related parties are
already included as consolidated companies in the consolidated financial statements of
PUMA SE. Control is defined as the ability to determine an entity’s financial and business
policies and benefit from its activities.
SAPARDIS SE, Paris, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kering S.A., Paris, presently holds
over 75% of the subscribed capital of PUMA SE. Kering S.A. is controlled by Artémis S.A.,
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 181

Senior Marketing Manager

“The “DO YOU” campaign activation in India has been our top moment of the
year. The rendition of the “DO YOU” campaign in India revolved around breaking
the Guinness World Record for most number of women holding the plank for 60
seconds. We took the workout form “plank” and gave it both a metaphoric and
physical meaning, establishing how women are “planking” through their lives
and displaying core strength in every aspect of their lives. Over 2,500 women
took part”

Paris, which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris. Consequently, all companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by Artémis S.A. and are
not included in the consolidated financial statements of PUMA SE are defined as related
companies.

MOMENTUM

Debosmita Majumder

Transactions with related companies and parties largely concern the sale of goods and
services. These sales were concluded under normal market conditions that are also customary with third parties.
The following overview illustrates the scope of the business relationships

In addition, the disclosure obligation pursuant to IAS 24 extends to transactions with associated companies as well as transactions with other related companies and parties. These
include non-controlling shareholders in particular.
182 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

T.67
Deliveries and services rendered

Deliveries and services received

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated companies

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.1

Kering-Group consolidated companies

3.3

1.8

6.7

4.8

Other related parties

0.1

25.2

16.5

18.2

Total

3.4

27.0

23.2

23.1

T.68
Net receivables from
2016
€ million

Payables to

2015
€ million

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Artémis-Group consolidated companies

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

Kering-Group consolidated companies

1.3

2.2

19.7

75.3

Other related parties

0.0

1.9

0.1

1.8

Total

1.3

4.1

19.8

77.1

In addition, dividend payments to non-controlling shareholders were made in the amount
of € 19.3 million in 2016 (previous year: € 42.0 million).

ous year: € 52.2 million). As in the previous year, no expenses were recorded in the 2016
financial year in this connection.

Excluding dividend income of more than € 0.7 million (previous year: € 0.7 million), there
were no other transactions with associated companies.

Liabilities to companies included in the Kering Group include € 19.0 million (previous year:
€ 74.7 million) in current financial liabilities, which were taken out as part of the financing
activities. They are shown under other current financial liabilities.

Receivables from related companies and parties are, with one exception, not subject to
value adjustments. Only with respect to the receivables from a non-controlling shareholder and its group of companies were gross receivables in the amount of € 52.2 million
adjusted in value for a subsidiary of PUMA SE in Greece as of December 31, 2016 (previ-

The Managing Directors as well as the members of the Administrative Board of the PUMA
Group are related parties within the meaning of IAS 24. The services and compensation
of this group of individuals is shown in paragraph 29.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 183

As part of consulting, service and employment contracts, members of the Administrative
Board received compensation from PUMA in the amount of € 0.3 million (previous year:
€ 0.3 million).

31. Corporate Governance
In November 2016, the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board submitted the
required compliance declaration with respect to the recommendations issued by the Government Commission German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of
the AktG (Aktiengesetz, German Stock Corporation Act) and published it on the Company’s website (www.puma.com). Please also refer to the Corporate Governance Report in
the Management Report of PUMA SE.

32. Events after the Balance Sheet Date
There were no events after the balance sheet date that had any material impact on the net
assets, financial and results of operations.

management report including the management report of the parent company provides a
true and fair view of the course of the development and performance of the business and
the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and opportunities associated with the expected performance of the Group.

Date of Release
The Managing Directors of PUMA SE released the consolidated financial statements on
January 30, 2017 for distribution to the Administrative Board. The task of the Administrative Board is to review the consolidated financial statements and state whether it approves
them.

Herzogenaurach, January 30, 2017

The Managing Directors

33. Declaration by the Legal Representatives
We state to the best of our knowledge that the consolidated financial statements give
a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the
Group in accordance with the applicable accounting principles, and that the combined

184 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Gulden

Lämmermann

Sørensen

THE M ANAG ING DIRECTO RS
Bjørn Gulden
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Tchibo GmbH, Hamburg, Germany
• Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA, Dortmund, Germany
• Dansk Supermarked A/S, Højbjerg, Denmark
• Pandora A/S, Kopenhagen, Denmark

Michael Lämmermann
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)

Lars Radoor Sørensen
Chief Operating Officer (COO)
Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
• Scandinavian Brake Systems A/S, Svendborg, Denmark
• Hoyer Group A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark (from January 1, 2017)

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 185

A DMI NISTR ATIVE BOARD OF P U M A SE , H ERZO G EN AU R AC H

Jean-François Palus

(Chairman)
London, United Kingdom
Group Managing Director and Member of the Board of Directors of Kering S.A.,
Paris, France, responsible for Strategy, Operations, and Organization

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Kering Americas, Inc., New York, USA
•• Volcom, Inc., Costa Mesa, USA
•• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
•• Pomellato S.p.A., Milan, Italy
•• Volcom Luxembourg Holding S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Sowind Group S.A., La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland
•• Guccio Gucci S.p.A., Florence, Italy
•• Gucci America, Inc., New York, USA
•• Christopher Kane Ltd., London, United Kingdom
•• Manufacture et fabrique de montres et chronomètres Ulysse Nardin S.A., Le Locle,
Switzerland
•• Kering Eyewear S.p.A., Padua, Italy
•• Yugen Kaisha Gucci LLC, Tokyo, Japan
•• Birdswan Solutions Ltd., Haywards Heath, West Sussex, United Kingdom
•• Paintgate Ltd., Haywards Heath, West Sussex, United Kingdom
•• Stella McCartney Ltd., Haywards Heath, West Sussex, United Kingdom
•• Kering Asia Pacific Ltd., Hong Kong, China
•• Kering South East Asia PTE Ltd., Singapore
186 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

François-Henri Pinault

(Vice Chairman)
Paris, France
CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Kering S.A., Paris, France

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Artémis S.A., Paris, France
•• Financière Pinault S.C.A., Paris, France
•• Société Civile du Vignoble de Château Latour S.C., Pauillac, France
•• Christie’s International Ltd., London, United Kingdom
•• Soft Computing S.A., Paris, France
•• Yves Saint Laurent S.A.S., Paris, France
•• Sapardis SE, Paris, France
•• Volcom, Inc., Costa Mesa, USA
•• Stella McCartney Ltd., Haywards Heath, West Sussex, United Kingdom
•• Kering International Ltd., London, United Kingdom
•• Manufacture et fabrique de montres et chronomètres Ulysse Nardin S.A.,
Le Locle, Switzerland
•• Kering Eyewear S.p.A., Padua, Italy
•• Kering UK Services Ltd., London, United Kingdom

Thore Ohlsson
Falsterbo, Sweden
President of Elimexo AB, Falsterbo, Sweden

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Nobia AB, Stockholm, Sweden
•• Elite Hotels AB, Stockholm, Sweden
•• Tomas Frick AB, Vellinge, Sweden
•• Tjugonde AB, Malmö, Sweden
•• Dahlqvists Fastighetsförvaltning AB, Kristianstad, Sweden (from 1 January 2017)

Todd Hymel
Santa Ana, USA
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Volcom Inc., Costa Mesa/USA

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:

•

Electric Visual Evolution LLC, Costa Mesa, USA

Jean-Marc Duplaix
Paris, France
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Kering S.A., Paris, France

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Sapardis SE, Paris, France
•• Redcats S.A., Paris, France
•• E_lite S.p.A., Milan, Italy
•• Kering Italia S.p.A., Florence, Italy
•• Pomellato S.p.A., Milan, Italy
•• Kering Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
•• Kering Tokyo Investment Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
•• Kering Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Qeelin Holding Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg

•• E-Kering Lux S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Luxury Fashion Luxembourg S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Kering Spain S.L. (previously named Noga Luxe S.L.), Barcelona, Spain
•• Kering Eyewear S.p.A., Padua, Italy
•• GPo Holding S.A.S., Paris, France
•• Gucci Immobiliare Leccio Srl, Florence, Italy
•• Design Management Srl, Florence, Italy
•• Design Management 2 Srl, Florence, Italy
•• Kering Studio S.A.S., Paris, France
•• Balenciaga Asia Pacific Ltd., Hong Kong, China
•• Kering Eyewear Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
•• REF Bresil S.A., Paris, France
•• Redcats International Holding S.A.S., Paris, France
•• Redcats Management Services S.A.S., Paris, France
•• Balenciaga S.A., Paris, France
•• Kering Investments Europe B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands

Belén Essioux-Trujillo
Paris, France
Senior Vice-President Human Resources, Kering S.A., Paris, France
Member until April 11, 2016

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Sapardis SE, Paris, France
•• Castera S.A.R.L., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Luxury Goods Services S.A., Cadempino, Switzerland

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 187

Béatrice Lazat
Paris, France
Human Resources Director, Kering S.A., Paris, France
Member since May 4, 2016

Membership of other supervisory boards and controlling bodies:
•• Sapardis SE, Paris, France
•• Castera S.A.R.L., Luxembourg, Luxembourg
•• Luxury Goods Services S.A., Cadempino, Switzerland
•• Augustin S.A.R.L., Paris, France
•• Prodistri S.A., Paris, France
•• Conseil et Assistance S.N.C., Paris, France

Bernd Illig

(Employee Representative)
Bechhofen, Germany
Administrator IT Systems of PUMA SE

Martin Köppel

(Employee Representative)
Weisendorf, Germany
Chairman of the Works Council of PUMA SE

Guy Buzzard

(Employee Representative)
West Kirby, United Kingdom
Key Account Manager (Sales) of PUMA United Kingdom Ltd.

188 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ADMI NI STR ATIVE BOARD C OM M IT T EES
Executive Committee
Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Jean-Marc Duplaix
Martin Köppel

Personnel Committee

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Jean-François Palus
Bernd Illig

Audit Committee

Thore Ohlsson (Chairman)
Jean-Marc Duplaix
Guy Buzzard

Sustainability Committee
Jean-François Palus (Chairman)
François-Henri Pinault
Martin Köppel

Nominating Committee

François-Henri Pinault (Chairman)
Jean-François Palus
Todd Hymel

This is a translation of the German version. In case of doubt, the German version shall
apply.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 189

AU D I TOR ’S OPINION

We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, comprising the balance sheet, the income statement and the statement of
comprehensive income, the cash flow statement, the statement of changes in equity and
the notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the combined management
report for the period from January 1 through December 31, 2016. The Company’s Managing Directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report in accordance with the International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS), as applicable in the EU, as well as in accordance with the supplementary regulations under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a (1) HGB. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the combined
management report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements pursuant to Section 317
HGB in compliance with the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially
affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations
in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with German principles of proper
accounting and in the combined management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the Group’s economic and legal environment as well as expectations of possible misstatements are taken into account in the
determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal
control system as well as evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report are examined primarily on a sample
basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the financial statements of the companies included in consolidation, the determination of those companies
to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles applied and
significant estimates made by the Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the over190 | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

all presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management
report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our audit has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements
of PUMA SE, Herzogenaurach, comply with the IFRS, as applicable in the EU, as well as
with the supplementary regulations under commercial law pursuant to Section 315a(1)
HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group. The combined management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with the legal provisions, and as a whole provides a
suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of
future development.

Munich, January 30, 2017

Deloitte GmbH 				

Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Stadter

Otto

Wirtschaftsprüfer

Wirtschaftsprüfer

(Public Auditor)

(Public Auditor)

REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

Dear Shareholders,
In financial year 2016, the Administrative Board has exercised all its duties under the law,
statutes and company rules. It has managed the Company, determined the basic business
strategies and monitored their implementation by the Managing Directors.
In this regard, the Administrative Board has in its four regular meetings discussed and
resolved on the Company’s business policies, all relevant aspects of corporate development and corporation planning, the Company’s economic situation, including its net
assets, financial position and results of operations, and all key decisions for the Group.
All members participated in drawing up the resolutions. The Managing Directors have
informed the Administrative Board regularly, comprehensively, and in a timely manner
in written and verbal form about the implementation of all decisions and about all major
business transactions.
The Administrative Board discussed in detail all of the Company’s key business transactions, based on the reports by the Managing Directors and the committees, and presented
its own ideas. The Managing Directors has provided the Administrative Board with information on any deviations from business performance based on the specifications that
have been given to the Managing Directors by the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board verified all of these explanations using the supporting documents submitted.
The Administrative Board was involved in all key decisions at an early stage. In addition,
the Chairman of the Administrative Board and other members of the Administrative Board
maintained, and continue to maintain, regular verbal or written contact with the Managing
Directors and keep themselves informed of all major developments. Overall, these discussions did not give rise to any doubts that the Managing Directors were managing the
Group in anything other than a lawful and proper manner.

Main advisory focus
In the financial year 2016, the focus was primarily on the following topics: Audit and approval of the 2015 financial statements, dividend policy, setting the agenda for the Annual
192 | REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

General Meeting of May 4, 2016, ongoing business development, the Group’s financial
position, business planning for 2017 and medium-term planning, including investments,
compliance and internal control system, material litigation in the Group, determination of
new sustainability goals, corporate governance, including amendment of the Rules of the
Procedure for the Administrative Board and of the Rules of Procedure for the Managing
Directors to meet the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation regarding managers’
transactions.
To address these topics, the Administrative Board reviewed the Company’s financial
reports and records.

Conflicts of interest
The members of the Administrative Board are required to disclose any conflicts of interest
immediately. In the past year, no such disclosures were made.

Committees
The Administrative Board has established five committees to perform its duties and
receives regular reports on their work. The members of the committees are listed in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Annual Report.

Executive Committee
The Executive Committee organizes the Administrative Board meetings and makes decisions when instructed by the Administrative Board to do so on its behalf. This committee
did not meet in 2016.

Personnel Committee
The Personnel Committee is responsible for entering into and making changes to Managing Directors’ employment contracts and for establishing policies for Human Resources
and personnel development. It met once in 2016. Discussions focused on recommenda-

tions for setting bonus payments for the Managing Directors. The Administrative Board
was given a respective recommendation for a resolution.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee held four regular meetings in financial year 2016. In particular,
the Audit Committee is responsible for accounting issues and monitoring the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control system, risk management and
the risk management system, internal audits, compliance and the statutory audit of
the financial statements, with particular regard to the required independence of the
statutory auditors, issuing the audit mandate to the statutory auditors, defining the audit
areas of focus, any additional services to be performed by the auditors and the fee agreement.

Sustainability Committee

Board effective April 11, 2016. The Nominating Committee recommended to the Administrative Board that the Administrative Board proposes the election of Ms. Béatrice Lazat
(Human Resources Director, Kering S.A., Paris, France) at the Annual General Meeting
on May 4, 2016.

Corporate Governance
As in previous years, the Administrative Board addressed current developments in the
German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) in the financial year 2016 and adjusted its
objectives for the composition of the Administrative Board. The GCGC contains essential
statutory regulations and recommendations for the management and supervision of listed
companies and standards for responsible corporate governance. The corporate governance standards have long been a part of the corporate routine. None of this is changed
in the single-tier corporate governance system now in place at PUMA.

The Committee is responsible for promoting corporate sustainability and an awareness of
the need to act fairly, honestly, positively and creatively in every decision made and every
action taken. One meeting was held in 2016. The close cooperation and regular exchange
between Kering and PUMA, e. g. in the field of E P&L as well as the targets to be achieved
by PUMA by 2020, were the main focus during the discussions. PUMA’s targets and action
plan aim for maximum benefits and efficiency through the collaboration between NGOs
and the achievement of common standards within the industry. This approach is also further developed in the Talks at Banz.

Pursuant to Paragraph 3.10 of the GCGC, the Administrative Board reports on corporate
governance in the Corporate Governance Report. With very few exceptions, the Company satisfies the requirements of the GCGC and explains these system-related exceptions, as well as deviations from the GCGC resulting from PUMA’s single-tier system,
in the Statement of Compliance. The Statement of Compliance of November 9, 2016 is
available to our shareholders at any time on the Company’s website under http://about.
puma.com/de/investor-relations/corporate-governance/declaration-of-compliance/.

Nominating Committee

Annual financial statements adopted

The Nominating Committee proposes suitable shareholder candidates to the Administrative Board for its voting recommendations to the Annual General Meeting. It held one
meeting in the last financial year. The discussions focused on the elections to the Administrative Board after Ms. Belén Essioux-Trujillo (Senior Vice-President Human Resources,
Kering S.A., Paris, France) resigned from her position as member of the Administrative

The annual financial statements for PUMA SE prepared by the Managing Directors in
accordance with German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch/HGB), the consolidated
financial statements and the combined management report for PUMA SE and the PUMA
Group, each for the financial year 2016, prepared in accordance with Section 315a HGB
REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD | 193

on the basis of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have been audited
by the statutory auditors, Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Munich, who
were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on May 4, 2016 and commissioned by the
Administrative Board to audit the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements and have been given an unqualified auditor’s opinion.
In their report, the statutory auditors conclude that PUMA’s institutionalized risk management system, in accordance with Section 91(2) of the German Stock Corporation Act
(Aktiengesetz/AktG), is capable of detecting at an early stage and countering any developments that might jeopardize the continuity of the Company as a going concern. The
Administrative Board has been updated by the Managing Directors regularly on all relevant risks in this regard, in particular their assessments of market and procurement risks,
financial risks (including currency risks) and organizational risks.
The accounting records, the audit reports from the statutory auditors and the Managing
Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit were made available to all
members of the Administrative Board in a timely manner. At the meeting of the Audit
Committee on February 8, 2017 and at the subsequent Administrative Board meeting held
on the same day, the statutory auditors reported on the key results of their audit and discussed them in detail with the Managing Directors and the members of the Administrative
Board. No discrepancies were detected. Further, the Managing Directors explained to the
Administrative Board the disclosures made in the management report, pursuant to Sections 289(4) and (5) and Section 315(4) of German Commercial Code (HGB).
The Administrative Board reviewed in detail the annual financial statements, the combined
management report for PUMA SE and the PUMA Group, the Managing Directors’ recommendation on the appropriation of net profit and the consolidated financial statements and
raised no objections. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the
Administrative Board agreed with the results of the audit of both statements and approved
194 | REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD

the annual financial statements of PUMA SE and the consolidated financial statements
for the 2016 financial year. The 2016 annual financial statements have thus been adopted.
The Administrative Board likewise agrees with the Managing Directors’ proposal to distribute a dividend of € 0.75 per dividend entitled share to the shareholders for financial year
2016. The dividend will be funded from cash and cash equivalents, which will not jeopardize
the Company’s liquidity. A total amount of € 11.2 million will be paid out in dividends from
PUMA SE’s net income. The remaining net income of € 194.3 million will be carried forward.

Report on relationships with affiliated companies
Since April 10, 2007, PUMA SE has been a dependent company of Sapardis SE, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Kering S.A, which in turn is a subsidiary of Artémis S.A. (due to the
voting right majority), pursuant to Section 17 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
The report by the Managing Directors on relations with affiliated companies (Dependent
Company Report) specified in Section 312 AktG has been made available to the Administrative Board. The report has been reviewed by the statutory auditors, who issued the
following auditor’s opinion:
”We have duly examined and assessed the report and hereby certify that:
1. t he information contained in the report is correct,
2. the payments made by the corporation in the legal transactions listed
in the report were not unduly high.“
After a thorough review, the Administrative Board agreed with the Dependent Company
Report prepared by the Managing Directors and approved the auditors’ findings. No objections were raised.

Personnel changes in the Administrative Board
There was one change in personnel on the part of the shareholder representatives. The
Administrative Board elected Ms. Béatrice Lazat (Human Resources Director, Kering
S.A., Paris, France) as shareholder representative at the Annual General Meeting on May
4, 2016. Her term of office ends with the close of the Annual General Meeting that adopts
the resolutions approving the actions of the Board for the financial year 2016.

Thanks
We would like to express our gratitude and recognition to the Managing Directors, the
management teams at the Group companies, the Works Council and all our employees
for their hard work and their outstanding cooperation.
Herzogenaurach, February 8, 2017
On behalf of the Administrative Board

Jean-François Palus
Chairman

REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD | 195

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

GRI G4 Content Index
Since 2003 PUMA’s sustainability reports are based on the guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI), which developed detailed and widely recognised guidelines on
sustainability reporting. This report has been developed in accordance with the GRI G4
guidelines using the “Core” option. This option enables us to report on the impacts related
to our economic, environmental, social, and governance performance. It includes topics
that are material to PUMA’s business and our key stakeholders and that constitute our
sustainability targets. These targets have been systematically developed in accordance
with the feedback from PUMA’s stakeholders.

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 197

GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20

39

G4-2

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects

39

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

G4-9

Number of Employees;
Sales;
Results of Operations;
Dividends

G4-10

Number of Employees;
Diversity;
Working Conditions and
Flexible Working Modules

46

ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page
97
100
103
106

Number of employees are
specified according to gender
and part-time contracts. No
further specification related to
type of employment or region.
Significant changes for number
of employees is not a material
aspect.

97
75
82

G4-3

Imprint

G4-4

Commercial Activities and
Organisational Structure

89

G4-5

Commercial Activities and
Organisational Structure

89

G4-11

Working Conditions and
Flexible Working Modules

82

G4-6

Sourcing

All countries in which
subsidiaries exist are noted in
the reference to the financial
statement.

94

G4-12

50
57

G4-7

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 1. General;
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 2. Significant Consolidation,
Accounting and Valuation
Principles

All countries in which
subsidiaries exist are noted in
the reference to the financial
statement.

142

Social Auditing;
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9);
Summary

Sales

All countries in which
subsidiaries exist are noted in
the reference to the financial
statement.

G4-8

198 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

215

144

100

G4-13

Targets and Strategy;
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 1. General;
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 2. Significant Consolidation,
Accounting and Valuation
Principles

64

Detailed information contained in
financial statement.

69
90
142
144

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

GRI
Standard
Disclosures
G4-14

G4-15

G4-16

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
Human Rights
(10FOR20 Target No. 2)

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1)

39

Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2)

45

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

Page

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

The material aspects are covered. Further aspects related
to the scope of the topics and
materiality are covered in the
Human Rights screening report
by Shift on our website.

46

83

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects

No changes related to material aspects. However transfer
of material aspects into new
10FOR20 Sustainability Targets.

39

83

--

No significant changes of material aspects compared to previous
reporting period.

–

83

39

83

Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

G4-21

PUMA’s Material Aspects

G4-22

45
48

45
G4-23

48

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

46

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17

G4-18

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 1. General

G4-24
142

190

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
PUMA’s Material Aspects

39

G4-19

PUMA’s Material Aspects

46

83

G4-20

PUMA’s Material Aspects

46

83

83

G4-25

45
46

The material aspects are covered. Further aspects related
to the scope of the topics and
materiality are covered in the
Human Rights screening report
by Shift on our website.

G4-26

G4-27

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
PUMA’s Material Aspects
PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
PUMA’s Material Aspects

45
46
39

83

45
46

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
PUMA’s Material Aspects

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Stakeholder- Engagement
(10FOR20 Target No. 1);
PUMA’s Material Aspects

39

83

45
46
83

45
46

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 199

GRI
Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

REPORT PROFILE
G4-28

Calendar year 2016

–

G4-29

May 2016

–

G4-30

Annually

G4-31

Imprint

G4-32

GRI G4 Content Index;
Independent Assurance
Report;
Auditor’s Opinion

In accordance with Core-option
selected.

G4-33

Independent Assurance
Report;
Auditor’s Opinion

External assurance through Deloitte & Touche GmbH. All levels
of leadership were included in
this process.

–
215
197
83
190
83
190

GOVERNANCE
G4-34

PUMA’s Sustainability
Organisation;
Corporate Governance Report

G4-37

PUMA’s Sustainability
Organisation

44
129
44

ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56

Relevant Disclosures of Corporate Governance Practices
that are applied beyond the
Regulatory Requirements;
PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2);
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)

200 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

131
39
48
68

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
86
90
99
100

Overview 2016;
Results of Operations;
Sales;
Cashflow

Further information contained
in the financial statement and
attachments to the financial
statement.

G4-EC2

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)

Partially reported, as the
financial implications of the risk
of taking measures were not
evaluated.

Compensation Report;
Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements 1. General;
Provisions for Pensions and
Similar Obligations;
Pension Provisions

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

ASPECT: MATERIALS

Overview 2015;
Targets and Strategy;
Management System;
Economic Report

G4-EC1

G4-EC3

Standard
Disclosures

CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL

ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

G4-DMA

86
103
100
111
57

G4-EN1

68
117
142

150
164

G4-EN2

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target
No. 9);
Summary

46
63
64

69

Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

The most relevant materials
used are reported based on our
materiality analysis.

63

Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

Only reported in general. Specific
percentages are given for cotton,
polyester, leather and cardboard. Total figures for recycling
of waste and recycled paper
are reported. Since PUMA has
completely outsourced production to external suppliers, paper
is the main material used directly
at PUMA.

64

63
64

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 201

GRI
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

G4-EN3

G4-EN4

G4-EN5

G4-EN6

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9);
Summary

39

Cross-reference
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

46
57
64

69
Total energy consumption
(in KWh) and percentage of
renewable energy are reported,
independent of fuel type.

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

Total energy consumption (in
KWh) is reported for Tier 1 suppliers, independent of fuel type.

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L)(10FOR20 Target No.
9)

Total energy intensity is reported,
regardless of subcategories.

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

Partially reported as energy
savings are listed as part of
the total energy consumption.
Further information is given on
our website:
http://about.puma.com/en/
sustainability/supply-chain/resource-efficiency)

57
64

57
64

57

G4-EN15

64

57

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments
Energy consumption per product
category (and partially also on
material level) reported. However, this information is not product
specific, since data is not available on product level.

Page
64

ASPECT: EMISSIONS
G4-DMA

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

202 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

Standard
Disclosures
G4-EN7

ASPECT: ENERGY
G4-DMA

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

G4-EN16

64

G4-EN17

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9);
Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7);
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6);
Summary
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

39
46
57
64

62
60

No quantitative reporting for CO2
emissions from biogenic sources.

64

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

69
57

57
64

Sum parameters are reported independent of their origin. Emissions from biogenic sources are
not reported separately.

57
64

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

GRI
Standard
Disclosures
G4-EN18

G4-EN19

G4-EN21

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)

57
64

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)
Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7)
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6)

Page

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

Standard
Disclosures

Reporting only for selected and
material parameters. Quantitative emissions of air pollution
parameters are not reported as
production of PUMA goods is
outsourced.

62
60

G4-DMA

G4-EN30

G4-DMA

G4-EN22

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7)
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target No.
9)
Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7)
Environmental Profit & Loss
(EP&L) (10FOR20 Target
No. 9);
Summary

46
62
G4-EN32
64

Reporting for own entities. Test
methods and results are also
reported for selected suppliers,
in addition on our website at:
http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/
environment/zero-dischargeof-hazardous-chemicals

62
64

69

Page

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5);
Summary

39
46
57
69
57

Climate Change (10FOR20
Target No. 5)

ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
G4-DMA

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

ASPECT: TRANSPORT

57
64

Cross-reference

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

G4-EN33

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7);
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6);
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

46
62
60
50
69

Water and Air (10FOR20
Target No. 7);
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6);
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3)
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6)

62
60
50
Reporting related to the number
of audited suppliers. More
detailed information regarding
results and corrective actions
available at:
http://about.puma.com/en/sustainability/environment/zero-discharge-of-hazardous-chemicals

60

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 203

GRI
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

CATEGORY: SOCIAL
SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
People@PUMA

G4-LA1

Number of Employees;
Working Conditions and
Flexible Working Modules

G4-LA6

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Health and Safety (10FOR20
Target No. 4);
Occupational Health and
Safety
Occupational Health and
Safety

G4-LA9

Training and Development

Total training hours and number
of trained employees are fully reported, however not specified by
gender and employee category.

74

97
82

G4-LA10

Growing Talent;
Training and Development;
Talent Management

General training and employee
development programs available, also leadership training
programs. No specific life-long
learning programs in place.

72
74
73

G4-LA11

Talent Management

Percentage of employees
covered, however no specific
information given on gender or
employee category.

73

71

ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
39

G4-DMA

People@PUMA

46
55

G4-LA12

Diversity;
Worker’s Council;
Administrative Board;
The Managing Directors

78
No specific information given on
type of injuries and work-related
illnesses or gender break-down
of injury rates, also for business
partners, since this data is
considered
as business confidential.

Page

People@PUMA

71
Newly hired employees covered,
however not specified according
to age and regions as this information is regarded as business
confidential.
Fluctuation rate reported, but not
specified according to region as
this aspect is not considered to
be material.

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

G4-DMA

78

71
Number covered but not specified according to age or other
diversity indicators.

75
77
182
180

ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES
G4-DMA

G4-LA14

204 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

Cross-reference

39

ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA

Standard
Disclosures

ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION

ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT
G4-DMA

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

69

Social Auditing

50

46
50

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

GRI

GRI

Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

G4-LA15

Social Auditing

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments
Number of complaints, categorisation and their resolution rate
covered, however no details on
individual complaints given as
this information is confidential.

Page
50

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

G4-HR3

Social Auditing

ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA

G4-LA16

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

69

Social Auditing

50

46
50

G4-DMA

ASPECT: INVESTMENT
G4-DMA

G4-HR2

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)

39
46
68
Percentage of trained employees given. No details on number
of training hours given as this is
considered not material.

G4-DMA

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target N o. 3);
Summary

G4-DMA

G4-HR5

39

50

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary
Social Key Performance
Indicators (S-KPIs)

46
50
69
Information related to suppliers
given per region.

53

ASPECT: CHILD LABOR

68

ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION

No information given on specific
cases of discrimination, instead
general reporting as part of audit
figures and complaints mechanisms. Information is collected
but cannot be shared publicly for
confidentiality reasons.

Page

ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

G4-HR4

SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)
Social Auditing;
Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)

39
46
50
63
Information related to suppliers
given per region. For PUMA’s
own entities not regarded as
material. Further information
related to risk for own entities
and suppliers not reported.

50
63

46
50
69

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 205

GRI

GRI
Standard
Disclosures

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
G4-DMA

G4-HR6

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)
Summary
Social Auditing;
Materials (10FOR20 Target
No. 8)

G4-HR9

Information related to suppliers
given per region. For PUMA’s
own entities not regarded as
material. Further information related to risk for own entities and
suppliers not reported.

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2);
Summary
PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2)

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

206 | GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX

Cross-reference

G4-HR10

Social Auditing

G4-HR11

Social Auditing

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Impact analysis related to suppliers and regions reported as
part of audit statistics and worker
complaints. No detailed information given on percentages.

ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS

69

G4-DMA

50
63

G4-HR12

Page
50

63

50

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

69

Social Auditing

50

46
50

SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY
39
46
48

ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA

69
39
48
G4-SO1

ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
G4-DMA

Standard
Disclosures

46
50

ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES
G4-DMA

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

39
46
50
69

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2);
Community Engagement;
Charity Cat;
Summary
Human Rights (10FOR20
Target No. 2);
Community Engagement;
Charity Cat

46
48
76
76
69
Community engagement of
employees reported per region
in hours, however not specified
per business operation.

48
76
76

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

GRI
Standard
Disclosures

GRI

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION
G4-DMA

G4-SO3

G4-SO4

Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)

39

G4-DMA

46
68
Corruption risks for PUMA were
analysed, identified and prioritized. However no quantitative
reporting is given regarding the
analysed business locations
since this information is not
regarded as material.

68

Cross-reference

Omissions, reasons, explanations and comments

Page

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

Percentage of trained employees is reported. However this is
not further specified according to
categories or region, since this
information is not considered to
be material.

68

G4-SO11

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3)

46
50

Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

50
69

ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA

46
50
69

G4-SO9

Social Auditing

According to our company
policies, every supplier has to
undergo our audit process.

50

G4-SO10

Social Auditing

Only total figures are given, no
further information on percentages.

50

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6);
Summary

G4-PR1

Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6)

G4-PR2

Chemicals (10FOR20 Target
No. 6)

39

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Social Compliance (10FOR20
Target No. 3);
Summary

39

SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY

ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY
G4-DMA

Standard
Disclosures

ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY

PUMA Sustainability Strategy
10FOR20;
PUMA’s Material Aspects;
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10)
Governance (10FOR20 Target
No. 10);

External
Assurance
by
DELOITTE

46
60
69
Generally, all materials used in
PUMA production need to be
tested. However our reporting
only covers test reports which
are contained in our RSL database.
Only the number of failed materials is reported, however not the
resulting actions (penalties or
other measures).

60

60

GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX | 207

THE PUMA SHARE

Senior Manager, Ecommerce (Xing Fei), Director, Operations (Theresa Wong)

The so-called “Singles Day” has become a global shopping phenomenon,
which forged massive revenue for our products especially in China. PUMA’s
growth was very impressive. Reaching sales of 13.5 million Euros in the first
24 hours, PUMA experienced an increase of 300% over 2015. Our Operations
Team shipped 380,000 orders in just 5 days. That was our momentum.

The PUMA share had a very positive development in 2016 and showed considerable
gains particularly in the second half of
the year. The share started into 2016 at
€ 198.65 and moved in the coming twelve
months in a range between € 168.20 (February 11, 2016 / -15.3%) and € 249.65
(December 30, 2016 / +25.7%). The highest share price during 2016 of € 249.65
also represents the share price at the end
of the year, which was 25.7% higher than at
the year-end 2015.
The market capitalization increased
accordingly from € 3.0 billion to € 3.7 billion at year-end 2016. The average daily

volume of shares traded decreased from
9,416 shares in 2015 to 3,392 shares in
2016.
Compared to the SDAX, which rose moderately in 2016 by 4.6%, the PUMA share
developed significantly better, gaining
25.7%

T.1

MOMENTUM

Xing Fei & Theresa Wong

Key Data per Share
2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

End of year price

€

249.65

198.65

172.55

235.00

224.85

Highest price listed

€

249.65

212.85

235.00

249.40

274.00

Lowest price listed

€

168.20

141.85

157.10

205.35

210.10

amount

3,392

9,416

7,209

11,086

24,739

Earnings per share

€

4.17

2.48

4.29

0.36

4.69

Gross cashflow per share

€

12.24

9.00

11.52

15.44

21.89

Free cashflow (before acquisitions) per
share

€

3.78

-6.58

4.23

3.33

5.58

Shareholders’ equity per share

€

115.28

108.39

108.32

100.22

106.73

Dividend per share

€

0.75

0.50

0.50

0.50

0.50

Daily trading volume (Ø)

THE PUMA SHARE | 209

PUMA Share Performance / Trading Volume

F.1

Share Development – rebased

F.2
amount
40,000

€
300

140

PUMA
35,000
250

120

PUMA Share Performance

30,000

SDAX

200
25,000

150

20,000

15,000
100

100

80

Trading Volume
10,000
60

50
5,000
0

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

0

The PUMA share has been registered for the regulated market (formerly official trading)
on German stock exchanges since 1986. It is listed in the Prime Standard Segment and
the Small-Cap Index SDAX of the German Stock Exchange [Deutsche Börse]. Moreover,
membership in the Dow Jones World / STOXX Sustainability indices and the FTSE4Good
index was once again confirmed.
210 | THE PUMA SHARE

40

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

June

July

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

FURTHER INFORMATION

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison

T.1

T.1

PUMA Year-on-Year Comparison

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Deviation

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

Deviation

3,626.7

3,387.4

7.1%

Gross cashflow

182.9

134.5

36.0%

- Footwear

1,627.0

1,506.1

8.0%

Free cashflow (before acquisition)

56.5

-98.3

-

- Apparel

1,333.2

1,244.8

7.1%

Investments (before acquisition)

84.3

79.0

6.8%

666.5

636.4

4.7%

Acquisition investments

6.8

0.5

-

1,656.4

1,540.2

7.5%

11,128

10,988

1.3%

EBIT

127.6

96.3

32.6%

325.9

308.3

5.7%

EBT

118.9

85.0

39.8%

62.4

37.1

68.0%

Share price (in €)

249.65

198.65

25.7%

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14.940

14.940

0.0%

14.940

14.940

0.0%

4.17

2.48

68.0%

Sales
Consolidated sales

- Accessories

Cashflow and investments

Result of operations
Gross profit

Net earnings

Employees

Profitability

Number of employees (annual average)
Sales per employee (k€)
PUMA share

45.7%

45.5%

0.2%pt

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

EBT margin

3.3%

2.5%

0.8%pt

Earnings per share (in €)

Net margin

1.7%

1.1%

0.6%pt

Market capitalization

3,730

2,968

25.7%

10.3%

7.9%

2.4%pt

Average trading volume (amount/day)

3,392

9,416

-64.0%

3.6%

2.3%

1.3%pt

1,722.2

1,619.3

6.4%

- Equity ratio

62.3%

61.8%

0.5%pt

Working capital

536.6

532.9

0.7%

14.8%

15.7%

- 0.9%pt

Gross profit margin

Return on capital employed (ROCE)
Return on equity (ROE)
Balance sheet information
Shareholders' equity

- in % of Consolidated sales

212 | FURTHER INFORMATION

PUMA Group Development (1)

T.2

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

Consolidated sales

3,626.7

3,387.4

2,972.0

2,985.3

3,270.7

3,009.0

2,706.4

2,447.3

2,524.2

2,373.5

2,369.2

- Change in %

7.1%

14.0%

-0.4%

-8.7%

8.7%

11.2%

10.6%

-3.0%

6.3%

0.2%

33.3%

- Footwear

1,627.0

1,506.1

1,282.7

1,372.1

1,595.2

1,539.5

1,424.8

1,321.7

1,434.3

1,387.9

1,420.0

- Apparel

1,333.2

1,244.8

1,103.1

1,063.8

1,151.9

1,035.6

941.3

846.2

899.3

827.3

795.4

666.5

636.4

586.3

549.4

523.6

433.9

340.3

279.4

190.6

158.3

153.8

1,656.4

1,540.2

1,385.4

1,387.5

1,579.0

1,493.4

1,344.8

1,243.1

1,306.6

1,241.7

1,199.3

45.7%

45.5%

46.6%

46.5%

48.3%

49.6%

49.7%

50.8%

51.8%

52.3%

50.6%

15.7

16.5

19.4

20.8

19.2

17.6

19.1

20.6

25.7

35.6

37.0

127.6

96.3

128.0

191.4

290.7

333.2

337.8

299.7

350.4

372.0

368.0

3.5%

2.8%

4.3%

6.4%

8.9%

11.1%

12.5%

12.2%

13.9%

15.7%

15.5%

118.9

85.0

121.8

53.7

112.3

320.4

301.5

138.4

326.4

382.6

374.0

3.3%

2.5%

4.1%

1.8%

3.4%

10.6%

11.1%

5.7%

12.9%

16.1%

15.8%

62.4

37.1

64.1

5.3

70.2

230.1

202.2

79.6

232.8

269.0

263.2

1.7%

1.1%

2.2%

0.2%

2.1%

7.6%

7.5%

3.3%

9.2%

11.3%

11.1%

Marketing/retail

732.3

697.6

599.7

544.1

609.3

550.7

501.3

501.2

528.6

448.3

439.5

Personnel

493.1

483.8

425.3

415.7

438.8

393.8

354.1

320.2

306.4

278.0

265.7

Sales

- Accessories

Result of operations
Gross profit
- Gross profit margin
Royalty and commission income
EBIT1)
- EBIT margin
EBT
- EBT margin
Net earnings
- Net margin

Expenses

1) EBIT before special items
* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010

FURTHER INFORMATION | 213

PUMA Group Development (2)

T.2

2016
€ million

2015
€ million

2014
€ million

2013
€ million

2012
€ million

2011
€ million

2010
€ million

2009*
€ million

2008
€ million

2007
€ million

2006
€ million

Total assets

2,765.1

2,620.3

2,549.9

2,308.5

2,530.3

2,581.8

2,366.6

1,925.0

1,898.7

1,863.0

1,714.8

Shareholders' equity

1,722.2

1,619.3

1,618.3

1,497.3

1,597.4

1,605.2

1,386.4

1,133.3

1,177.2

1,154.8

1,049.0

- Equity ratio

62.3%

61.8%

63.5%

64.9%

63.1%

62.2%

58.6%

58.9%

62.0%

62.0%

61.2%

536.6

532.9

455.7

528.4

623.7

534.0

404.5

323.2

436.4

406.5

401.6

718.9

657.0

571.5

521.3

552.5

536.8

439.7

344.4

430.8

373.6

364.0

Free cashflow

49.7

-98.9

39.3

29.2

-8.2

16.8

17.1

167.3

85.8

208.8

10.4

Investments (incl. acquisitions)

91.1

79.5

96.4

76.3

172.9

115.3

163.6

136.3

144.1

112.9

153.9

3.6%

2.3%

4.0%

0.4%

4.4%

14.3%

14.6%

7.0%

19.8%

23.3%

25.1%

10.3%

7.9%

11.5%

5.6%

8.6%

28.7%

31.7%

20.3%

41.0%

54.8%

58.0%

Number of employees (year-end)

11,495

11,351

11,267

10,982

11,290

10,836

9,697

9,646

10,069

9,204

7,742

Number of employees (annual average)

11,128

10,988

10,830

10,750

10,935

10,043

9,313

9,747

9,503

8,338

6,831

249.65

198.65

172.55

235.00

224.85

225.00

248.00

231.84

140.30

273.00

295.67

4.17

2.48

4.29

0.36

4.69

15.36

13.45

5.28

15.15

16.80

16.39

Average outstanding shares (in million)

14.940

14.940

14.940

14.940

14.967

14.981

15.031

15.082

15.360

16.018

16.054

Number of shares outstanding (in million)

14.940

14.940

14.940

14.940

14.939

14.935

14.981

15.082

15.082

15.903

16.114

3,.730

2,968

2,578

3,511

3,359

3,360

3,715

3,497

2,116

4,342

4,764

Balance sheet

Working capital
- thereof: inventories

Cashflow

Profitability
Return on equity (ROE)
Return on capital employed (ROCE)

Additional information

PUMA share
Share price (in €)
Earnings per share (in €)

Market capitalization

* adjusted comparable figures according to IAS 8, see chapter 3 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010		
			
214 | FURTHER INFORMATION

∂

PRINT

I

PUBLISHER
PUMA SE
PUMA Way 1
91074 Herzogenaurach
Germany
Phone: 0049 (0) 9132 81 – 0
Online: www.about.puma.com

∂

EDITORIAL DEPARTMENTS
Corporate Communications
Investor Relations
PUMA.Safe
Human Resources

CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
KERSTIN NEUBER
Head of Corporate Communications
kerstin.neuber@puma.com

∂

HUMAN RESOURCES
DIETMAR KNÖSS
Director Human Resources
dietmar.knoess@puma.com

∂

M

∂

SUSTAINABILITY
STEFAN SEIDEL
Head of Corporate Sustainability
stefan.seidel@puma.com

INVESTOR RELATIONS
JOHAN-PHILIP KUHLO
Head of Investor Relations &
Senior Manager Global Strategy
johan-philip.kuhlo@puma.com

∂

DESIGN AND REALISATION
G64-medienwelten GmbH
Planckstraße 13
Planckstudios-Magistralgebäude
22765 Hamburg
gramlow@g64-medienwelten.de

