Our Responsibility

2016
POWERING. RELIABLE. FUTURE.

02 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

About the Report
The report entitled “Our Responsibility 2016” is aimed at
analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations
(NGOs) and our workforce, customers and suppliers, policymakers and government agencies and the people living in
the regions where we do business. It describes the most
important social, environmental and economic challenges
facing our core business, the conflicting aims that can arise,
and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we have
developed in response.
This report is published in pdf format. The accountancy firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH performed an engagement
audit on the disclosures indicated with
and provided a
limited assurance relating to compliance of the disclosures
with the G4 requirements of the GRI. The limited assurance
engagement was carried out in accordance with the auditing
principles of the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised), see page 72 for
Assurance Report. The CR Report includes an overview of all
the important indicators, see page 74.
Approach
The CR Report of RWE AG is published as a GRI Report and
conforms with the Guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) in a selection based on a Materiality Analysis
of the topics relevant for our business. We have also implemented GRI requirements for the electricity industry (G4
Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures) in accordance with materiality. The report was prepared in conformity with the GRI
G4 Standard in the option “in accordance” core. This “Our
Responsibility 2016” was available for the implementation
of the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service. The correct positioning of the “G4 materiality disclosures” (G4-17 – G4-27)
was confirmed by GRI. The report also serves as our progress
report for the Global Compact of the United Nations,
see page 75.

Dates
The period under review is fiscal 2016, which began on
1 January and ended on 31 December. The data provided
in this report relate to all affiliated companies of the RWE
Group which are included in the consolidated financial
statements. Any deviations from this are clearly stated. The
financial data were taken from the Annual Report 2016 of
RWE AG. We present financial data denominated in the relevant national currency and have converted these based on
the average annual values for 2016 (1 US dollar = € 0.91,
1 UK pound sterling = € 1.22, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.70,
100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32, 1 Polish zloty = € 0.23).
The commercial rounding of certain figures can result in the
sum of the rounded figures or percentages deviating from
the rounded totals in some cases.
For reference
This report is published in German and English. The Executive Board of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. The editorial deadline was on 24 March 2017. This
report continues our policy of annual reporting. The next
report will be published in the spring of 2018. Naturally,
the term “employee” refers to male and female employees
throughout.
RWE Archive CR Reports
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding
the future development of the RWE Group and its companies
as well as economic and political developments. These statements are assessments that we have made based on information available at the time this report was drawn up. In the
event that the underlying assumptions do not materialise
or additional developments arise, actual performance may
deviate from the performance expected at present. We are
therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever
for the accuracy of these statements.

03 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

CONTENT
Content
About the Report

02

Content03
General Standard Disclosures
04
Strategy and Analysis
05
Organisational Profile
07
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
14
Stakeholder Engagement
17
Report Profile
19
Governance20
Ethics and Integrity
24
Specific Standard Disclosures
Economic Performance Indicators
Environmental Performance Indicators
Social Indicators 
Labour Practices and Decent Work
Human Rights
Society
Product Responsibility

25
26
39
52
52
62
63
70

Appendix71
Assurance Report
72
Important Sustainability Indicators
74
UN Global Compact Progress Report 2016
75
Contact and imprint
76

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

04 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

 GRI G4 Content Index

General Standard
Disclosures

05 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 Statement from the organisation’s most senior decision-maker
Dear Readers,
RWE has undergone a large number of changes. However,
the establishment of the subsidiary company innogy SE in
spring of 2016 and its initial public offering on the stock
exchange were a watershed. They represented the biggest
changes ever experienced in the history of our company.
The operations of RWE are now based on two stable pillars.
Firstly, our Conventional Power Generation Division has the
biggest flexible power plant portfolio in Germany and highly
efficient power plants in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Secondly, RWE Supply & Trading is one of the leading energy trading companies in Europe. RWE also continues
to remain committed to the market segments of Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail through innogy.
RWE has made a commitment to a new claim which reflects
the self-image of the company, its role in the energy system
and its role within society: Powering. Reliable. Future.
Energy supply must be secure at all times: RWE is committed
to that claim. And this is how RWE is contributing to the success of the energy transition as a reliable partner.
Our conventional generating plants mean that we are indispensable for providing a secure electricity supply in Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. A major
task is presented by decommissioning our nuclear power
stations and financing the nuclear energy fund that German
lawmakers have adopted for intermediate storage and final
disposal in a repository. In trading business, we want to be
even more proactive in global commodity markets than has
been the case in the past. This will enable us to generate a
robust result for RWE AG. We also intend to drive forward the
expansion of our business with major industrial and corporate customers.

Ethical business conduct is the foundation for building our
future perspectives. RWE is strongly committed to its
responsibility towards the environment, its employees and
the community. Over the past twenty years, we have continuously modernised our power plant portfolio and increased
the efficiency of our plants. Our policy has been to drive forward a programme for expanding renewable energies. We
have prioritised nature conservation when restoring natural
habitats in opencast mines and in the context of grid expansion, while always providing our workforce with healthy
workplaces that are hazard-free to the greatest possible
extent. RWE is dedicated to these objectives. The Group
also remains committed to creating transparency for our
entrepreneurial operations. We were delighted that our
CR Report 2015 was positioned in 14th place among
150 selected reports in a ranking of German sustainability
reports.
The report has been produced on the basis of this objective
while at the same time also serving as our progress report
for the Global Compact of the United Nations. Signing this
compact represents our commitment to actively promoting
human rights, creating good working conditions, and environmental protection within our sphere of influence. It also
provides a strong signal that we are taking a decisive stand
in combatting corruption and bribery. The report provides a
detailed insight into how we achieve these objectives.
The fact is that we continue to place great emphasis on
providing evidence-based high-quality and informative communications for our stakeholders – in particular policymakers, investors, customers, local authorities and the general
public. This tells them all about what we are doing and
our future plans. And we will be delighted if this leads to
ongoing dialogue.
Yours,

Rolf Martin Schmitz
Chief Executive Officer

06 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities for sustainability
Key sustainability impacts from RWE AG result partly from
the CO2 emissions in conventional power generation. In
future, these emissions will be reduced continuously. Important factors driving this process include political regulations
such as the transfer of older lignite-fired units to security
standby, and potentially further shutdowns of older plants.
In future, the declining utilisation of our power plant capacity and ongoing expansion of renewable energies will also
contribute to a reduction in emissions. The utilisation of efficient gas-fired power stations is likely to become more frequent. The latter development is driven by improved market
conditions in this area and the final exit from nuclear energy
in Germany. Other aspects of sustainability impacts are the
safe operation of our plants, decommissioning of nuclear
power plants, and high-quality recultivation and reinstatement of opencast mines that have come to the end of their
lifetime.
The sustainability requirements in the supply chain are regularly another strong focus, particularly in the case of hard
coal and biomass.
During the year under review, RWE AG underwent massive
changes. Restructuring and efficiency measures ensure a
future-proof alignment for the segments, but also create
uncertainties for employees. The accelerated cultural change
within the company presents significant challenges for flexibility and readiness to change in the workforce.
RWE AG will increasingly develop its own constructive role
for implementation of the energy transition. We will make
even more flexible use of our power plant portfolio and provide urgently needed backup capacities for further expansion of renewable energies.
The spin-off and initial public offering of innogy on the stock
exchange have enabled us to create a business with good
opportunities for growth in Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail.
Important political and social framework conditions for RWE
AG have been defined in the resolutions reached by the
Paris Climate Conference COP21 on the global reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions. Relevant factors in this connection are the planned changes for European emissions trading, the Climate Protection Plan 2050 of the German Federal Government, and the ongoing discussions in the
Netherlands and the United Kingdom.

Securing the future of lignite in mutual agreement with the
state government of North Rhine-Westphalia is a key issue
for us because lignite will continue to remain an important
pillar for the business model of RWE AG over the foreseeable
future. The planned development of lignite production and
use (keyword: landmark decision NRW) is in accordance with
the national and European climate protection targets, which
are based on the resolutions passed at the Paris Climate
Conference COP 21.
The Act on Reorganising Responsibility for Nuclear Waste
Management was finally passed at the end of December.
The law will come into force as soon as the EU has approved
state aid. This is likely to be given in spring of 2017.
The act implements the recommendations of the Commission
for Reviewing the Finance of Exit from Nuclear Energy (KFK),
see Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – management
approach, page 35.
The business model and alignment of RWE AG also present a
range of diverse opportunities. We are confident that conventional power generation will continue to be the partner
of the energy transition in Europe for many years to come.
Our power plant portfolio places us in a good position to
support this. We will also be able to develop new business
areas with our know-how in generation and trading business.
The initial public offering of innogy has enabled us to increase
our financial scope for action and to improve our financial
position.
Sustainability is the core of our business model. We require
the acceptance of the community in order to be successful
over the long term – starting with government, continuing
through associations and employees, and including environmental and consumer organisations. With this end in mind,
we are continuously engaging in discussion in the public
domain and monitoring the positions of our stakeholders in
relation to all issues of sustainability. This is carried out
through focused communication with colleagues from the relevant specialist departments and the companies in the various countries where we operate. The key task is to integrate
the fundamental concepts of Corporate Responsibility in all
our business processes in a way that generates value added
for the RWE Group.

07 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Organisational Profile
G4-3 Name of the company
RWE AG

G4-4 Primary brands, products and services
RWE AG with its two operational segments of conventional
power generation and the energy trading business is indispensable for streamlining the entire energy system and for
security of supply in Europe.
Our third pillar is the majority holding in innogy SE with its
three divisions of Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure, and
Retail. We manage these three divisions as a fully consolidated financial investment, see G4-13, page 10.For disclosures on the products and services of innogy see G4-4 in
the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 page 11.

RWE and innogy have a broad spectrum of know-how in the
production and refinement of lignite, power generation from
gas, coal, nuclear power and renewable sources, energy
trading, the distribution and sale of electricity and gas, and
the development and provision of innovative energy management solutions. This expertise enables RWE and its subsidiary company innogy to operate at all levels of the value
chain in the energy industry.

G4-5 Location of the headquarters
Essen, Germany

G4-6 Countries with major operations
RWE is an international group which including its subsidiary
company innogy is represented at business locations in
24 countries.

QQ Germany
QQ Netherlands, Belgium
QQ United Kingdom
QQ Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe (Czech Repub-

The key business operations are distributed across the
following countries and regions.

lic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania)
QQ Western and Southern Europe (Spain and Italy)

G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form
RWE AG is a listed joint-stock company (Aktiengesellschaft, AG)
under German law.
The share capital of RWE AG is divided into 614,745,499
shares, of which 39,000,000 are preference shares without
voting rights. At the end of 2016, around 86% of RWE
shares were in the ownership of institutional investors, while
shares held by employee shareholders and other private
investors amounted to 1% and 13% respectively. 27% of the
equity capital was attributable to institutional shareholders
in Germany (2015: 28%). Meanwhile, in North America, the
United Kingdom and Ireland, this group of shareholders

amounted to 35% (2015: 32%) and in Continental Europe
not including Germany the proportion was 20% (2015: 24%)
of the shares. A large proportion of local-authority shares
are bundled in RWEB GmbH and at 13% this entity remains
the biggest individual shareholder of RWE. Our second largest individual shareholder is BlackRock: In November, notification was received from the US asset manager that it held
4% in RWE. The proportion of RWE ordinary shares in free
float amounted to 86% most recently. This forms the basis
for the index weighting of the German Stock Exchange
(Deutsche Börse).

08 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-8 Markets served
Conventional Power Generation (RWE Generation)
Our German, British, Dutch and Turkish power generation
business with conventional power plants is grouped in this
segment. Lignite production operated by RWE Power in the
Rhineland also forms part of this segment alongside RWE
Technology Interna­tional, which specialises in project management and engineering services. Since 2016, we have also
recognised our majority shareholding in Mátra, Hungary,
here. This company specialises in the production of lignite
and downstream lignite-fired generation of electricity. The
segment also includes the Markinch biomass power station
in Scotland.
Trading/Gas Midstream (RWE Supply & Trading)
The business of the Trading/Gas Midstream segment encompasses all tradable energy commodities in physical and
derivative form, for example gas, coal, oil and electricity.
They also include emissions certificates, freight, weather

derivatives and biomass. RWE Supply & Trading offers
trade-based portfolio management and a broad range of
commodity-based services to large industrial customers, distributors and trading counterparties, see G4-EC2, page
28. The Trading/Gas Midstream segment sold 39.3 TWh of
electricity in 2016 (2015: 34.6 TWh) and 25.0 TWh of gas
(2015: 29.2 TWh) to consumers, see the Annual Report
2016 of RWE AG, page 45.
Renewables Energies, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail
(innogy)
The key markets served by innogy are Germany, Benelux, the
United Kingdom and Central Eastern and South Eastern
Europe. In these markets, innogy operates in sales activities,
distribution grids and with plants for power generation from
renewable energies, see G4-8 in the innogy Sustainability
Report 2016, page 12.

G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation

Size of the company
Workforce

Unit

2016

2015

FTE

58,652

59,762

Headcount

62,598

63,708

Business locations¹

Countries

External revenue (including natural gas tax /electricity tax)

€ billion

24

24

45.8

48.1

Equity

€ billion

8.0

8.9

Net debt

€ billion

22.7

25.5

Lignite produced (opencast Rhineland mining area)

million mt

90.5

95.2

External electricity sales volume²

billion kWh

264.6

261.5

External gas sales volume

billion kWh

265.1

273.0

1 Number of countries in which fully consolidated companies and joint operations of RWE have their registered office.
2 For data on power generation see EU2, page 12.

09 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-10 Breakdown of workforce by employment types, gender and regions

Headcount of employees
2015

2016
Women

Men

Total

Total

Germany

8,343

29,686

38,029

38,863

United Kingdom

3,570

5,011

8,581

9,176

Netherlands/Belgium

1,057

2,356

3,413

3,261

Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe

4,042

8,340

12,382

12,209

150

43

193

199

17,162

45,436

62,598

63,708

Other countries
RWE Group
Part-time employees

4,841

4,535

Full-time employees

57,757

59,173

Permanent contract

59,121

60,587

Fixed-term contract

3,477

3,121

No data are available to us for subcontractors. This will continue to remain the case in the future since the subcontractors do
not have an obligation to inform us about these data.

G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
99.7% of the employees of the RWE Group work in Europe
and are represented by the European Works Council. The
RWE and the innogy Social Charter cover 100% of our
employees.

Our business partners are required to acknowledge the
Code of Conduct and therefore to accept the principles of
the United Nations Global Compact, which include the
right to collective bargaining.

G4-12 Description of the supply chain
Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard
coal and gas, as well as trading in combustion fuels. Raw
materials are traded as standardised products with defined
quality attributes on international wholesale markets. These
markets are the most important source of procurement. The
procurement volume of combustion fuels (hard coal, natural
gas and biomass) was around € 7.6 billion in 2016.

When purchasing goods, services and plant components for
our business operations, RWE is in direct contact with service providers and suppliers. It also has contractual relationships with them. In 2016, the purchasing volume was € 6.1
billion. In order to meet the differing requirements relating
to procurement, we have adjusted our internal processes to
ensure compliance with our sustainability requirements in
the supply chain, see Aspect: Procurement Practices–
management approach, page 30.

10 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the company’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain
RWE has bundled the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and
Supply Divisions into a new company known as innogy SE.
On 7 October 2016, the innogy share was traded for the
first time on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. RWE’s share­
holding in innogy fell from 100% to 76.8%. Taken together,
the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail Divisions,
which were included in the new company contributed
around €4.2 billion to the adjusted EBITDA for the RWE

Group of € 5.4 billion, see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE
AG, page 46. As a fully consolidated financial investment
the new company is included in the data which form the
basis for this report. We manage innogy purely as a financial
investment. innogy is structured with its own set of internal
rules and regulations with identical meaning and coverage.
Where there are significant differences in the management
approaches, we will address these at the appropriate point.

G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle
Identifying, assessing and managing risks at the earliest possible stage are the functions of the Controlling & Risk Management Department at RWE AG. This includes our groupwide reporting and controlling systems. It also encompasses
our guidelines on handling risks, and risk analysis within the
scope of strategic, planning and controlling processes. The
activities of the Risk Committee and internal auditing are also
fundamental tenets of this work alongside reporting on the
basis of the Act on Control and Transparency of Enterprise
(KonTraG).

The Internal Auditing & Compliance Department ensures
compliance with the RWE Code of Conduct in the course
of the audits carried out. Its principles are included in the
audit criteria. The Chief Compliance Officer reports on this
matter regularly to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to
the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
For more information on risk management
Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 77 to 86.

see the Annual

G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives
UN Global Compact
Since January 2004, the RWE Group has been a member of
the UN Global Compact (UNGC).
By signing up to the Global Compact, RWE made a commitment to observe the ten principles underlying the Global
Compact. This entails respecting human rights and labour
standards, promoting environmental protection in its work,
and preventing corruption. We present the contribution we
have made to global implementation of the principles of the
Global Compact in an annual Progress Report.

Bettercoal initiative
Cooperating with other energy companies is absolutely
essential in order to be in a position to exert more pressure
and achieve sustainable production and transport conditions in the supply chain for hard coal. In 2012, we joined
forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the
Bettercoal initiative. By the end of 2016, 13 of the big
European energy companies were already members of Bettercoal (2015: 12). The Dutch ports also joined the initiative
as associate members. Bettercoal audits hard-coal production
sites throughout the world and presents the results to its
members, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 31.

11 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations
We are an active member of a large number of different
committees and specialist associations as part of our social,
environmental and business responsibility. The following
memberships are important for RWE AG (in alphabetical order):

QQ Energy UK
QQ Eurogas
QQ German-Russian Forum (Deutsch-Russiches Forum e.V.)
QQ IETA (International Emissions Trading Association
QQ If.E Innovation Forum for the Energy Transition of IGBCE

(Innovationsforum Energiewende)

QQ Bettercoal Ltd.
QQ BDEW German Association of Energy and Water Industries
QQ
QQ

QQ
QQ

(Bundesverband der Energie- und Wasserwirtschaft e. V.)
DEBRIV – Federal Lignite Association
(Bundesverband Braunkohle)
econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of the
German Economy (Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der
Deutschen Wirtschaft e. V.)
EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders
Energy Netherlands (Energie Nederland)

QQ Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP)
QQ VdV Association of the German Integrated Economy

(Verband der Deutschen Verbundwirtschaft e. V.)
QQ VRB – Association of Raw Materials and Mining
(Vereinigung Rohstoffe und Bergbau e.V.)
QQ World Energy Council
For memberships of innogy, see G4-16 in the innogy
Sustainability Report 2016, page 15.

EU1 Installed capacity

Power generation capacity in MW

Conventional Power
Generation

Gas

Lignite

Hard coal

Renewable
energies

Nuclear
energy

Pumped water,
oil, other

Total
2016

Total
2015

14,964

11,059

8,688

284

4,054

2,831

41,880

42,977

of which:
4,411

10,296

5,071

55

3,908

2,549

26,290

26,496

 Netherlands/Belgium

Germany¹

3,057

–

2,057

158

146

–

5,418

6,228

 United Kingdom

6,649

–

1,560

55

–

282

8,546

8,627

Hungary/Turkey

847

763

–

16

–

–

1,626

1,626

innogy
RWE Group

243

17

399

3,735

–

137

4,531

4,680²

15,207

11,076

9,087

4,019

4,054

2,968

46,411

48,052³

1	Including generating capacities which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. At the end of 2016,
this amounted to 4,373 MW (4,629 MW) in the Conventional Power Generation Division, including hard-coal power stations with a total output of 2,173 MW
(unchanged).
2 The value still includes a share of the generating capacity of Zephyr Investments Limited.
3 Including the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream segment.

12 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

EU2 Net output broken down by primary energy source

Power generation

Lignite

Hard coal

Nuclear
energy

Gas

Renewable
energies

Pumped water,
oil, other

Total

in billion kWh

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

Conventional Power Generation

74.3

77.8

44.2

44.7

52.6

42.0

30.1

31.7

1.1

1.1

3.0

3.0

205.3 200.3

68.9

72.5

22.4

21.7

6.3

3.5

29.0

30.6

0.7

0.8

3.0

3.0

130.3 132.1

–

–

15.1

15.4

6.9

5.8

1.1

1.1

–

–

–

–

23.1

22.3

of which:
Germany¹
 Netherlands/ Belgium
 United Kingdom

–

–

6.7

7.6

36.2

29.3

–

–

0.4

0.3

–

–

43.3

37.2

Hungary/Turkey

5.4

5.3

–

–

3.2

3.4

–

–

–

–

–

–

8.6

8.7

10.8

11.1

innogy²
RWE Group²

–

–

0.1

0.2

0.7

0.6

–

–

10.0

10.3

–

–

74.3

77.8

44.3

46.5³

53.3

42.6

30.1

31.7

11.1

11.4

3.0

3.0

216.1 213.0³

1	Including electricity purchases from power plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In
2016, this electricity amounted to 11.0 billion KWh (previous year: 11.1 billion kWh) in the Conventional Power Generation Division, of which 7.8 billion kWh
(previous year: 7.7 billion kWh) electricity generating capacity was based on hard coal.
2	Up to the sale of our shareholding in Zephyr Investments Limited in the middle of 2016, electricity purchased from the wind farms operated by Zephyr was
also included in this calculation. In 2016, this amounted to 0.3 billion kWh (previous year: 0.8 billion kWh).
3	Including generation of the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream
segment.

EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customers
Our subsidiary innogy is able to build on a broad customer
base in all its markets. In 2016, the residential and commercial customer segment essentially included a total of over
16,000 electricity customers and around 6,800 gas customers,
see EU3 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 18.

External electricity sales volume¹
in billion kWh
Conventional Power Generation
Trading/Gas Midstream

The size of the customer base in our Trading/Gas Midstream
segment is significantly less. However, even today it generates around 15% of electricity and around 9% of gas sales,
see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 45.

Residential and
commercial customers

Industrial and
corporate customers

Distributors

Total

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

0.2

0.2

2.4

2.4

17.5

19.2

20.1

21.8

–

–

30.3

31.2

–

–

39.3²

34.6²

innogy

52.3

53.7

73.5

76.9

79.3

74.4

205.1

205.0

RWE Group³

52.6

54.0

106.2

110.5

96.8

93.6

264.6

261.5

1	Methodological changes in the recognition of trading transactions resulted in the adjustment of prior-year figures;
see Notes on reporting in the Annual
Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41.
2	Including volume effects of the sale of self-generated electricity on the wholesale market. If these sales volumes exceed the purchases made for supply purposes, the positive balance.
3 Including volumes subsumed under “Other, consolidation”.

External gas sales volume¹
in billion kWh
Trading/Gas Midstream

Residential and
commercial customers
2016

2015

Industrial and
corporate customers
2016

2015

Distributors
2016

Total

2015

2016

2015

–

–

24.7

25.5

0.3

3.7

25.0

29.2

innogy

102.9

102.6

83.1

81.1

54.1

60.1

240.1

243.8

RWE Group³

102.9

102.6

107.8

106.6

54.4

63.8

265.1

273.0

1	Methodological changes in the recognition of trading transactions resulted in the adjustment of prior-year figures;
2016, page 41.

see Notes on reporting in the Annual Report

13 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines
innogy operates electricity and gas distribution grids with a total length of around 570,000 km in Germany, the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. For more information on the countries see EU4 in the innogy Sustainability Report
2016, page 19.

EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances
Since the beginning of the third trading period of the European Emissions Trading Scheme on 1 January 2013, operators of plants subject to mandatory emissions trading have
only received a basic allocation of emission allowances free
of charge on application. This allocation is strictly regulated
and limited in accordance with uniform allocation regulations throughout the EU. Out of the 148.3 million metric
tons (mt) of CO2 emitted by RWE in EU countries in 2016,
we were only able to cover 4.5 million metric tons due to an

allocation of emissions allowances of this type that are free
of charge. This yields an insufficient allowance of CO2 emissions certificates amounting to 142.6 million metric tons.
We covered the shortfall by purchasing emissions allowances.
To a very limited extent, we were also able to use certificates from international climate protection projects which
were created under the Kyoto mechanisms “Clean Development Mechanisms” and “Joint Implementation”.

Free allocation of
CO2 certificates

Shortage of
CO2 certificates

Emissions balance by division¹

CO2 emissions

in million metric tons of CO2

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

Conventional Power Generation

147.6

148.9

4.2

5.2

142.2

142.4

of which:
106.8

109.1

4.2

5.1

102.6

104.0

 Netherlands/Belgium

Germany²

14.0

14.8

–

0.1

14.0

14.7

 United Kingdom

19.1

17.4

–

–

19.1

17.4

Hungary/Turkey³

7.7

7.6

–

6.5

6.3

0.7

0.7

0.3

0.4

0.4

0.3

4.5

5.6

142.6

143.94

innogy
RWE Group

148.3

150.8

4

1 Only plants which participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme.
2	Includes generation capacities not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2016, they produced 7.1 million
metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 6.9 million metric tons).
3 Since Turkey does not participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need emission allowances for our CO2 emissions in that country.
4	IIncluding the emissions of the hard coal-fired power plant Lynemouth in the Trading /Gas Midstream segment, which was sold in early 2016.

14 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 List of consolidated entities and consolidated financial statements
See list in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, pages 155 to 181.

G4-18 Process for selecting the report content
Our management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting
take into account the relevant issues that we have determined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach
corresponds to the current G4 Guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this
report. We carried out a comprehensive Materiality Analysis
for the CR Report 2015. This involved adopting two perspectives for evaluating the issues that are particularly
important for sustainable governance at RWE. These views
are from the perspective of the stakeholders and the standpoint of the company.
In this context, we asked representatives of our most important stakeholders in 2015 about the challenges and issues
they believed to be particularly important for the company
from their perspective. We also asked them about what they
expect from RWE. Our objective was to obtain a broad range
of views. We therefore conducted detailed and structured
interviews with 38 representatives of organisations and
institutions from civil society in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic.
These results were then supplemented with information we
obtained from other conversations with our stakeholders.
The evaluation of this information was agreed in a joint discussion with the CR Officers of the RWE companies and it
was incorporated into the Materiality Analysis.

tation process. Initially, we brought together the key issues
and assessed their relevance for RWE at the level of experts
and line managers within the Group companies. A second
stage took the form of a validation process and involved the
departmental managers of RWE AG and the board members
of the Group companies responsible for CR at the time.
Since the restructuring of the Group has not yet been completed, we took a decision this year to update the results of
the Materiality Analysis from 2015. The starting point for
this is the list of key GRI aspects from the last report. We
modified these at the level of internal experts and specialist
process owners to match the current materiality landscape.
We also took account of the results of the external survey
from the previous year’s materiality process, the results of
the ratings that we took part in this year, and current political and legislative developments. Experts and specialist process owners from the Group companies were integrated in
reporting for purposes of evaluation this year.
The feedback we received from our external stakeholders
focused on the medium to long-term perspective of RWE.
Furthermore, there is a stream of enquiries relating to controversial issues of an individual nature that our stakeholders raise. In cases like this, we get into dialogue directly and
work on developing a solution. We do not report on such
individual cases at this point.

We performed the subsequent internal evaluation within the
scope of reporting on the year 2015 in a group-wide consul-

G4-19 List of material aspects identified in the process for defining the report content (also includes disclosures for
G4-20 and G4-21)
RWE is not responsible for process steps and their impacts
which involve upstream and downstream activities in our
value chain and therefore take place outside our company.
Nevertheless, we are indirectly associated with these stages

and we are able to exert an influence on them within the
individually defined framework. We can also directly manage
the impacts that are caused within our company.

15 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Overview of the key aspects and where their impacts are caused:
Material impact
GRI Aspect
Economic performance indicators
Economic Performance
Indirect Economic Impacts
Procurement Practices
Availability and Reliability
Demand-side Management
Research and Development
Decommissioning of Power Plants
Efficiency of the Power Plant Portfolio and Distribution Grid
Environmental Performance Indicators
Energy
Water
Biodiversity
Emissions
Waste and Effluents
Products and Services
Compliance (Environment)
Overview (expenditure Environment)
Supplier Environmental Assessment
Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
Social Performance Indicators
Labour Practices
Employment
Labour/Management Relations
Occupational Health and Safety
Basic and Career Training
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Equal Pay for Women and Men
Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices
Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms
Human Rights
Supplier Human Rights Assessment
Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms
Society
Local Community
Anti-corruption
Public Policy
Anti-competitive Behaviour
Compliance (Society)
Supplier Assessment of Impacts on Society
Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society
Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response
Product Responsibility
Product and Service Labelling

Preliminary value
added phase

RWE

Consumption phase

16 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-20 Material aspects identified within the company
See G4-19, page 14.

G4-21 Material aspects identified outside the company
See G4-19, page 14.

G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such changes
We have amended our reporting methods in the context of the new bundling of large parts of our business,
see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41.

G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries
We have amended our reporting methods in the context of the new bundling of large parts of our business,
see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41.

17 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the company
Our company regularly engages in communication in different ways with customers, academics, politicians, representatives of environmental organisations, local government
agencies, neighbours around our locations and other citi-

zens. We also seek contact with players who are otherwise
involved in issues relating to the energy industry, as well as
the corporate activities of RWE and its impacts on society as
a whole.

G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholder groups
Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations we
have relationships with and engage in dialogue with. We
also regard individuals and entities who seek communication
with us, or who are interested in our company, as stakeholders. There is no prior selection process. In order to identify
the various aspirations and take account of them in our corporate policy, we are in continuous dialogue with our stake-

holders and open to their concerns. Expectations that stakeholders have of RWE are nuanced and defined by their
attitude to energy issues and the extent to which those
stakeholders are affected by them. The different countries
show a varying basic attitude to topics associated with
energy. Their views are informed by the individual national
background.

G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement including frequency of engagement
Communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable
ideas for the orientation of our corporate activities. Since
our company is going through a process of change, it is particularly important for us to discuss expectations and projections about the future of energy supply with external stakeholders. At the same time, this dialogue provides us with
the opportunity to reflect and convey our company decisions and underlying motivation more effectively.
The dialogue takes place at different levels. We engage in
discussions at local level with neighbouring residents and
citizen’s initiatives, for example about construction measures and approval proceedings. Local residents frequently

follow our projects and activities with a great deal of interest, perhaps because they are looking for positive effects to
give upside impact on the local economy. Alternatively, they
may be anxious about negative effects on their own lives
and the surrounding environment. We meet these expectations with an honest exchange of views and an interest in
constructive proposals. At national level, we engage in discussions with our stakeholders in particular on the following
issues: our contribution to the energy transition and climate
change, the future of the energy market, sustainability in
international supply relationships and a responsible
approach to our customers and the environment.

G4-27 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders and response of the company
In 2016 as in the previous year, the dominant issue in the
context of the dialogue with stakeholders continued to be
the contributions that the energy industry can make to
achieving the national climate change targets, and the role
that conventional power generation is able to play in the
energy transition. We engaged in an intensive dialogue at all
levels on this issue with a large number of representatives
from the political sphere, business, unions and the general
public.

One example of dialogue was local and regional forums.
Interaction in the Rhineland lignite mining area took place at
the level of local authorities and at meetings of elected politicians and various specialist conferences. These included the
Mining Damage Forum and the Water Industry Conference.
Alongside issues relating to the energy transition and climate
protection, key topics were security of supply, job security
and perspectives for the future at the locations. Another
area of increasing involvement was the innovation region

18 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Rhineland lignite mining area (Innovationsregion Rheinisches
Revier), which supports the structural change in this area.
As part of this involvement, a representative of RWE Power
AG is a Member of the Supervisory Board of the Innovationsregion Rheinisches Revier GmbH. Furthermore, RWE
participates in a large number of different projects and initiatives in the areas of opencast mining to shape the region,
for example the development company Indeland GmbH
Paradigmatic examples here are research into applications
for the use of lignite as a material, see Aspect: Research
and Development – management approach, page 34, the
commitment to constructing a climate protection settlement and the project “Factor X – Resource Efficient Building”. In accordance with these activities, the event series
“Future Laboratory Indeland” was continued this year, focusing on the topic “Living Locations of the Future” – Resource
efficient living in a rural area”.
The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) Niederaußem, which RWE set up at the power plant there, was
given a positive reception. The forum offers neighbours,
associations and other regional stakeholders the opportunity to engage in discussion with RWE about issues related
to power generation and power plants with particular reference to the Niederaußem site. In 2016, the forum met twice.
The agenda focused on the following topics: the impacts of
cold air flows on agriculture, perspectives on the use of CO2
as a material, the climate protection plan in North RhineWestphalia and international climate protection policy.
This year, we also held the first energy conversation in the
context of our Inden opencast mine and the Weisweiler
power plant. The purpose of the discussion was to promote
dialogue with local stakeholders about the future of the
region and the promotion of structural change.
In 2016, we additionally held a power plant discussion at
each of our nuclear power locations. We also rolled out a
Transparency Initiative at all three locations. The objective of
this is to create even more transparency in the future for
providing information to various regional special-interest
groups about licensing procedures currently under way.
Openness in relation to planning for decommissioning and
the process involved is also part of this approach.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

We continue to hold regular events at national and European
level, for example our RWE Talks. In 2016, these were held in
Berlin and in Brussels. Members of the Executive Board and
Managing Directors reported in this forum on the latest
developments in the energy industry and held discussions
with a wide range of different special-interest groups. The
discussions focused on various topics including the transformation of the world of work against the background of digitalisation. They also addressed the role of the distribution
grids in the energy transition and the importance of energy
trading. Additionally, we discussed the challenges of the
energy transition with a view to more expansion and integration of renewable energies.
Over the course of 2016, representatives of RWE Generation
in the United Kingdom engaged in dialogue on environmental conservation issues with the regulatory authorities and
politicians. The discussions centred on implementation of the
EC Directive on Industrial Emissions and a reference document outlining the best available technology for large combustion plants (LCP BREF). Local Liaison Committees continue their work at our power plant locations, including
Didcot B and Aberthaw.
In 2016, the Dutch Economics Minister issued an invitation
for energy dialogues so as to give the general public the
opportunity to play a role in further development of the
energy transition. We played a proactive role and organised
round-table discussions at Geertruidenberg and Amsterdam.
RWE also held an event in Groningen intended to promote
knowledge exchange about the important role of combined
combustion of biomass for a more sustainable economy in
the future. Representatives of local and national government, universities, energy companies and port authorities
participated in the discussion. The principal topics were the
need for biomass in order to meet Dutch targets for decarbonisation, the plans drawn up by RWE for combined combustion of biomass in the power plant at Eemshaven, and
new Dutch sustainability criteria for biomass and the refinement of biomass for the purpose of enhancing value in use.
For more information on the stakeholder dialogues of
innogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 under
G4-26 and G4-27, page 23.

19 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period
The reporting period covers the financial year 2016:
1 January 2016 – 31 December 2016
G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report
March 2016

G4-30 Reporting cycle
Annually

G4-31 Contact point for questions on the report
RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Alexander Nolden
Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility
45128 Essen
Tel.:
+49 201 12-00
Email responsibility@rwe.com

G4-32 The “in accordance” option for compliance with GRI and the index for the chosen option
This report was prepared on the basis of our established
reporting and our findings from the dialogue with stakeholders. In 2016, we prepared the report in accordance with
the current guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
in order to facilitate a comparison of our services with those
of other companies. It also presents the GRI G4 Content
Index at the same time. In this context, we took account of

the "G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures". The report was
prepared in conformity with the option “in accordance”
core. The values were not available to us with the necessary
differentiation for a number of the indicators derived from
the GRI. We have provided a justification in each case and
used disclosures which came closest to the requirements.

G4-33 External assurance of the report
were subject to an
The disclosures indicated with
engagement audit carried out by the accountancy firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) with a limited assurance.
The engagement audit was performed in accordance with

the auditing principles of the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised). For the
Assurance Report see page 72.

20 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Governance
G4-34 Governance structure of the company, including committees of the highest governance body
The governance of RWE as a German joint-stock company
listed on the stock exchange is primarily determined by the
Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) and also by the regulations of the German Corporate Governance Code in its latest current version.
Pursuant to the statutory regulations, RWE is subject to the
“dual governance system”. This is characterised by a strict
separation of personnel between the Executive Board as a
management body and the Supervisory Board as a monitoring
body. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board work
closely together in pursuing the interests of the company.
The Executive Board manages the company with the objective of generating sustainable value added under its own
responsibility. The principle of overall responsibility applies
to their work, and this means that the members of the Executive Board bear joint responsibility for the entire executive
management. They develop the corporate strategy and ensure
implementation in consultation with the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board advises the Executive Board on managing the company and monitors its activity. It appoints and
dismisses Members of the Executive Board, passes resolutions
on the compensation system for the Members of the Executive Board and defines individual compensation packages for
each member. The Supervisory Board is involved in all decisions that are fundamentally important for RWE.

The RWE Supervisory Board currently has five permanent
committees and the Executive Committee: the Mediation
Committee pursuant to Article 27 Section 3 Co-determination Act (MitbestG), the Personnel Affairs Committee, the
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Strategy Committee. Last year, a special committee “NewCo IPO
Committee” was added, which had to make decisions on the
details of the initial public offering of innogy SE. The committees prepare topics and resolutions in advance of meetings of the Supervisory Board. They sometimes also have
decision-making powers delegated to them by the Supervisory Board. The chairs of the committees regularly inform
the Supervisory Board about the work of the committees.
Additional detailed information on the concrete work of the
Supervisory Board and its committees is provided in the latest Supervisory Board Report in the Annual Report 2016
of RWE AG, page 8 to 12.
The group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate Responsibility is coordinated by the Political Affairs
and Group Corporate Responsibility Department within
Group Communications & Public Affairs. The head of this
department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
In 2016, representatives from the Group Centre and the
major operating companies came together a number of
times at the meetings held by the staff of the CR officers.
These meetings serve as forums for sharing ideas and discussing joint activities.
For information on the governance structure of innogy
see G4-34 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 28.

G4-35 Process of delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics
Powers of attorney are granted by the Executive Board in the
form of authorised officers and general agents to the individual departmental and section managers who are empow-

ered to take decisions independently within their sphere of
responsibility, so long as a higher level of authority has not
reserved the right to approve certain decisions.

G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics
The Executive Board has adopted a portfolio distribution
which gives specified members of the Executive Board responsibility for various topics. The current portfolio distribution
provides for the following powers of responsibility over economic, environmental and social topics: The Chairman of the
Executive Board deals with the group-level responsibilities
Group Communications & Public Affairs including the coordi-

nation of Corporate Responsibility, Legal, Corporate Development and Internal Audit & Compliance. The responsibilities of
the Chief Financial Officer include Accounting, Business Services, Controlling & Risk Management, Finance & Credit Risk,
Investor Relations, Portfolio Management/Mergers & Acquisitions and Tax. Human Resources is allocated to the Chief HR
Officer and Labour Director.

21 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

The Centre of Expertise Health & Safety and Industrial Medicine, Environmental Coordination and Group Purchasing are
situated in RWE Generation and carry out their function for
the entire Group from there.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

The Group Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board
of the company as the highest governance body.

G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Executive Board and Supervisory Board
Each shareholder has the right to submit a countermotion
with substantiation against the proposals put forward by the
Executive Board and/or the Supervisory Board on a specific
agenda item at the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders
whose shares taken together make up one twentieth of the
entire share capital or a proportionate amount of € 500,000

can demand that items are placed on the agenda and
announced. The publication of the business results is accompanied by an investors’ and analysts’ teleconference. In
2016, a Capital Market Day was held in London. Additionally, managers take part in Group roadshows and participate
in conferences.

G4-38 Composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board and its committees
The Supervisory Board is a non-executive supervisory body.
It consists of 20 members, ten of which are elected by the
Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of the
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Ten of the
members are elected by the employees pursuant to the Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) dated 4 May
1976 (MitbestG). The period of office for current members
started with the Annual General Meeting in 2016 and ends
with the Annual General Meeting in 2021. At the moment,
the Supervisory Board of RWE AG includes six women, of
which three were elected by the employees. RWE AG therefore complies with the statutory gender quota of 30%.
A presentation of the Executive Board and the Supervisory
Board is provided in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG,
page 182 to186. This gives an overview of the number of
additional important positions or duties of individual persons and the type of duties involved.
As envisaged in the Stock Corporation Act and in the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board is
intended to provide expert monitoring and consultation for
the Executive Board. The objective is for at least one member of the Supervisory Board to be able to provide expertise
for each aspect of the activity of the Supervisory Board. This

means that the necessary knowledge and experience is
reflected by the Supervisory Board as a whole. Another aim
is to ensure that the Supervisory Board includes members
with international experience who come from outside Germany or who have spent a considerable number of years
working in other countries. Members of the Supervisory
Board are expected to be familiar with the business areas of
the RWE Group, the market landscape, the needs of customers and the strategic direction of the company. They should
possess all the skills and know-how necessary for their activity as a member of the Supervisory Board including assessment of reports provided by the Executive Board, weighing
up business decisions and evaluating the documents associated with the annual financial statements. Alternatively,
they need to be willing to engage in a learning curve to
acquire the necessary knowledge and skills. The needs profile also includes special areas of expertise and qualifications
that are important for the business activities. This may
include e.g. experience from an international role or management functions in politics and business, know-how in the
energy sector, employee co-determination, accounting or
auditing, and expertise in the public sector.
You will find more information in the Annual Report 2016 of
RWE AG and on our Website.

G4-39 Independence of the Chair of the Supervisory Board
Dr Werner Brandt has been in post as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board since April 2016 and he is not simultaneously a
Member of the Executive Board. Dr Brandt has also not been a Member of the Executive Board of RWE AG in the past.

22 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board
As defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory
Board, the Nomination Committee convenes as necessary
and proposes suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board
as its nominations for election by the Annual General Meeting. When the committee selects the nomination proposals,
it takes into account the international operations of the
company, potential conflicts of interest, and diversity. There
is also a needs profile for Supervisory Board members which
is intended to ensure a heterogeneous composition of the
Supervisory Board, see G4-38, page 21.
As is also defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board, the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the
groundwork for decisions on personnel by the Supervisory

Board. The committee makes decisions on behalf of the
Supervisory Board in a number of areas including the conclusion, the amendment and the termination of contracts of
employment with the members of the Executive Board. This
work does not include the decisions reserved for the Supervisory Board pursuant to Article 87 Section 1 and Section 2
Sentence 1 and Sentence 2 Stock Corporation Act (AktG),
although the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the
groundwork for such decisions. Furthermore, the committee
regularly gives advice on long-term succession planning for
the Executive Board. In this context, the committee takes
account of planning for the management of the company
and also considers the need for diversity.

G4-41 Processes for ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided and managed
Transparency is a core element of good corporate governance. It is absolutely indispensable in cases where transactions concluded by the Executive Board may lead to conflicts
of interest. The members of the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board have not registered any conflicts of interest with us. Furthermore, no contracts were concluded
between members of the Supervisory Board and RWE AG.

The memberships in other governance bodies held by members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are disclosed transparently in the presentation of governance bodies in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 182 to
188. RWE AG has no controlling shareholder. Transactions
with related parties are included in financial reporting.
For additional information on Directors’ Dealings see our
Website.

G4-42 The role of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in the development, approval and updating of the
organisations’ purpose, value or mission statements, policies, goals and strategies
We have created long-term incentives for sustainable corporate governance in which part of the variable compensation for
the Executive Board has been linked to CR indicators, see G4-51, page 23.

G4-46 Role of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk
management processes
The Executive Board of RWE AG holds the principal responsibility for our risk management system. The board monitors
and manages the overall risk of the Group. The responsibility
for applying and developing the risk management system is
at the level below the Executive Board with the Controlling &
Risk Management of RWE AG. This department regularly

reports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of
RWE AG on the risk position of the Group.
The Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the quality
and the functional capability of the risk management system.

23 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-47 Frequency of the review of the economic, environmental and social impacts by the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board
The Executive Board of RWE AG is informed immediately if
there are any significant changes to the risk situation. The
management and supervisory bodies are informed about the
risk situation as part of quarterly reporting.
The entrepreneurial actions of RWE are defined by integrity
and compliance with the law. The RWE Code of Conduct sets
out the targets and principles for this and forms the basis
for the corporate culture. The Compliance Management System focuses in particular on the identification of potential
structural risks of corruption. The Compliance Management
System was set up to combat any corruption. It was audited

by an auditing firm in accordance with IDW Audit Standard
980. The efficacy audit was successfully completed at yearend 2013/14. The Chief Compliance Officer reports at regular intervals to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on issues relevant
to compliance. This includes in principle all the topic areas
of the Code of Conduct and he/she provides consolidated
information about this. Every manager with responsibility for
human resources additionally needs to submit an annual
report on implementation of the Code of Conduct in his/her
area of responsibility.

G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures
that all material aspects are covered
This report was reviewed and released by the Executive Board of RWE AG.

G4-51 The remuneration policies and the performance criteria for the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
Following intensive deliberation and with the support of an
external compensation expert, the Supervisory Board
defined a new compensation system for Members of the
Executive Board. This has been applied since 1 October
2016. The new system provides even better support for the
strategic alignment of RWE AG and promotes it even more
effectively. Important sustainability factors and the motivation of employees form an important basis of assessment.
Other factors are also used to assess the bonuses of the
members of the Executive Board.

Further details on the compensation policy and criteria for
the Executive Board, including disclosures on components of
the compensation package, are included in the compensation report in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page
62 to 76. This takes account of all statutory regulations and
follows all the recommendations of the German Corporate
Governance Code.

24 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics
At RWE we are well aware of our role in the community and
of our responsibility towards customers and business partners, as well as shareholders and employees. We therefore
have clearly defined principles which form the framework for
our corporate and community engagement. The focus of our
actions is on the common values of trust, passion and performance. They ensure a unified, overarching identity
throughout all the companies of the RWE Group. These values are supplemented by our Code of Conduct and the principles for good conduct defined in the Code. The principles
are intended as guidelines for the actions of our employees.

The code also establishes the benchmark for collaboration
with contractual partners and is intended to give a unified
foundation for the contractual relationship.
Responsible management and supervision of the company
rank among the cornerstones for long-term success. Our
benchmark is provided by the German Corporate Governance Code in the relevant latest version. We fully comply
with the recommendations of the code – and this strengthens the trust placed in us by our investors, customers,
employees and the general public.

G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to
organisational integrity
Every single employee is encouraged to be proactive in
bringing any issues relating to our Code of Conduct and
compliance with the code to the attention of their supervisor and/or the responsible compliance officer. The same
applies to any indications relating to breaches of the Code
of Conduct. Compliance officers are appointed for all divi-

sions and Group companies, and they are always available as
points of contact for such matters. They are particularly keen
to receive information about issues relating to prevention of
corruption. Contact details for compliance officers are available on the Intranet.

G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters
related to organisational integrity
Information on any breaches of the Code of Conduct can
be forwarded to supervisors or compliance officers through
a range of different channels. It is also possible to contact
an independent external ombudsperson. This contact is
available for employees and also accepts information from
third parties outside the company, for example suppliers or

other business partners. Information relating to any potential breaches is recorded by the Compliance Department.
Each case is reviewed by the Group function responsible for
investigating such a breach, and any remedial measures necessary are initiated in the context of a systematic follow-up
process.

25 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific
Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

26 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Economic Performance Indicators
Aspect: Economic Performance – Management approach
Challenges
Our market environment and the demands of society at
large are changing with the transition of energy systems in
Europe. We are meeting the diverse challenges faced by the
RWE Group at all stages of the value chain and in all the
regions where we are operating.
In Germany, the development of wholesale prices in the electricity market is largely dependent on feed-ins of renewable
energies. These reduce the utilisation of conventional power
plants, in particular of gas-fired power plants. Consequently,
this also brings down the prices that power producers are
able to achieve in the marketplace. Another aspect is that
hard-coal power stations, which traditionally exert a considerable influence on electricity pricing, are able to offer their
electricity at very favourable conditions. These factors mean
that the current quotations on the German electricity wholesale market are far below the level of the prices offered a few
years ago. Prices have also come down compared with 2015,
even if the reduction is only slight. As far as power generation by our German lignite-fired and nuclear power stations
is concerned, we achieved on average significantly lower
income than in 2015. The loss of revenues resulting from the
price of electricity in the case of our hard-coal power stations
but above all our gas-fired power stations was compensated
by lower charges owing to reductions in fuel costs. Gas-fired
power stations were therefore used more intensively. For
more information on this see the Annual Report 2016 of
RWE AG, page 26. The use of these power plants is popular
with a large number of stakeholders because they can be
deployed particularly flexibly. Furthermore, by comparison
with coal-fired power stations, they emit less CO2 per unit of
electricity generated. RWE has adopted a number of measures so that we are able to remain competitive as one of the
biggest European energy suppliers operating in the marketplace. These include comprehensive measures to reduce
costs and a strategic realignment with a stronger focus on
new business models so that we are in a position to offer
our customers innovative solutions.
In 2016, innogy SE was established and operations were bundled in the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure, and Retail Divisions. The restructuring has created a future-proof company
under the financial control of RWE AG with a clearly defined
strategic focus and greater financial scope for manoeuvre. The
new subsidiary company, which is managed as a financial
investment, will use the additional capital to make bigger
investments in renewable energies and in the trends defining

the energy world of tomorrow. RWE AG will benefit from the
success of innogy as the majority shareholder.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
The new corporate structure has enabled RWE to establish
the basis for creating a more robust financial platform,
improving the performance of the Group and making it more
competitive. However, we inevitably require the acceptance
of society in order to be successful over the long term –
starting with government, continuing through associations
and employees, to nature conservation organisations.
Economic performance and value generation for our
shareholders
We provide a transparent presentation in our value creation
calculation showing how we distribute the value generated
to the individual stakeholder groups, see G4-EC1, page 27.
RWE will continue to optimise its own portfolio in a consolidating market. We are also going to make use of options for
the additional construction of local generation plants such
as power plants for customers. However, the focus is also on
other generation, storage and flexibility solutions which
open up new opportunities for making profits especially in
regulated business and are intended to provide opportunities for increasing the use of electricity.
Furthermore, RWE Technology International (RWE TI)
offers independent services as a project management and
engineering company to RWE in the areas of mining, thermal
power plants, renewable energies and infrastructure. The
focuses of packages provided in this context are on consulting, engineering, training and safety in planning, construction, operation and decommissioning industrial projects.
The portfolio of RWE TI also includes optimising and modernising traditional energy generation, and rolling out new
technology solutions like energy storage. RWE TI makes use
of the extensive expert knowledge available from the RWE
Group in carrying out its operations.
Driving forward innovations
The energy industry needs innovations more urgently than
other sectors. The business models and processes of the past
are losing their profitability in many areas and are no longer
fit for purpose. They need to be modified by new ideas and
in some cases even replaced, see Aspect: Research and
Development – management approach, page 34.

27 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Alongside the overarching restructuring of the Group,
the motivator of innovations is also driving forward new
conceptual and operational approaches within the organisation of RWE.
In 2016, measures supporting cultural change included continuation of the following projects:
QQ The programme New Way of Working (NwoW) represents

a new mindset and approach to carrying out work, see
Aspect: Employment – management approach, page 52.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

The project is enabling us to strengthen the orientation
of our employees on performance and customers, and
involve them more closely in the decision-making processes. At the same time, we are ensuring more efficient
cooperation within the entire Group.
QQ Next Level Leadership (NLL) is a programme for our top
managers. It is intended to empower them to successfully bring about the transformation of RWE
QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP) is used to roll
out group-wide projects and a uniform understanding
of change and leadership.

G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed

Distribution of value added in € million

Total 2016

Total 2015

Total

5,329

11,391

to employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions)

4,777

4,803

to the government (taxes and deductions)¹

1,920

2,845

to lenders

4,111

3,454

to other shareholders
Net income
Dividend payment to shareholders²

226

454

-5,710

-170

5

5

1 Only the taxes paid are included, not tax expense.
2 Dividend proposal of RWE AG for the business year 2016 subject to the adoption of the resolution by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2017.

Donations and sponsorship in € million
Donations
Sponsorship

This year we succeeded in concluding a major sponsorship
initiative in the Netherlands with football club PSV Eindhoven.
The sponsorship volume has increased significantly com-

Total 2016

Total 2015

2.2

3.5

13.1

5.7

pared with the previous year as a result of this venture and a
variety of other activities.

G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change
Once again, climate protection was one of the key political
issues in 2016 and it is also crucial for RWE. Key factors in
our business are the ongoing expansion of renewable energies, increasing requirements for climate protection, and
digitalisation. Alongside the necessary modifications in our
power plant portfolio, we also perceive entrepreneurial
opportunities for us in the area of climate protection, and
we intend to exploit them. Our conventional power plant
portfolio will guarantee security for the electricity supply

with advanced and flexible power plants. innogy will continue to increase power generation from renewable sources
and develop and expand the technology for the grid infrastructure. We will offer our residential, commercial, industrial
and corporate customers innovative products and services
that enable them to benefit from the opportunities presented by digitalisation and to use energy more efficiently.
As a result, they can generate and market energy themselves. Following a successful initial public offering on the

28 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

stock exchange, innogy is able to draw on additional funds
for capital expenditure. Our trading subsidiary RWE Supply
& Trading has expanded its existing offering for major industrial customers and distributors. In addition to conventional
energy supplies, the company also makes specialist commercial service offerings to its major customers, such as
optimisation and enhanced flexibility for portfolios and
plants. RWE Technology and RWE Generation are contracted by customers to construct and operate plants for
combined heat and power, and for power generation from
renewable energies. The two companies are also commissioned to operate and maintain existing generating plants
belonging to customers. RWE Supply & Trading also offers
its services for these plants.
Impacts associated with the risk or opportunity
We support ambitious political goals for climate protection,
for expanding renewable energies and for improvement of
energy efficiency. At the same time, we are addressing the
enormous challenges that these objectives present in terms
of competitiveness, innovative power and financial strength.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Financial implications of the risk or opportunity before
action is taken
We have already carried out a large range of measures to
make our processes even more efficient, our organisation
even more effective and our corporate culture still more performance-oriented. Financial risks associated with emissions
trading are reflected in our risk management. We reduce
these risks by concluding appropriate hedging transactions.
When a specified amount of electricity is sold on the futures
market, the risk is hedged by purchasing appropriate
amounts of combustion fuels and the necessary emissions
certificates.
The Executive Board engages with the financial risks and
opportunities associated with climate change in the control
processes. However, the quantified results are not disclosed
for competitive reasons.

G4-EC3 Coverage of organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations
Company pension provision in Germany includes defined
contribution and defined benefit provision systems. There
are various systems for company pension provision in the
countries where we are operating. Additional information

on this and on company pension provision for employees
outside Germany is provided in the Annual Report 2016 of
RWE AG, pages 130 to 134.

G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government
RWE does not receive any financial grants or subsidies from
the government for its operating business. We also finance
all capital expenditure from our own resources. On the other
hand, we receive financial assistance from government
agencies for projects in research and development (R&D)
activities. The EU Transparency Register is one of the sources
providing information on R&D projects with EU subsidies.
We also receive agricultural subsidies from the EU for the

use of agricultural operational areas. These subsidies are for
interim agricultural use in the course of reinstating former
opencast mining sites and they last for a limited period of
time. In 2015, the subsidies amounted to € 420,501.73.
The value for 2016 was not yet known by the editorial deadline. The state does not hold any shares in RWE. Our biggest
single shareholder is RWEB GmbH in which the majority of
the shares held by local authorities is bundled.

29 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts – Management approach
Challenges
The challenges of the energy transition can only be solved
at the level of society as a whole. We want to be the credible
partner for this challenge and our aim is to enhance trust in
our company both within our regional and local environment, and in society as a whole. RWE makes an important
contribution to the regional economy through the secure
supply of electricity and gas at all times. The provision of
jobs and allocation of orders to local companies constitute
additional contributions.
We promote social developments through initiatives in
social, environmental and cultural spheres, with volunteering engagement by RWE employees and through financial
assistance.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Allocation of resources in compliance with rules
We want to use the resources available to us effectively and
in conformity with our compliance objectives. We have
defined rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline
on Donations and Sponsorship which applies throughout
the Group. Promotional gifts and resources that are relevant
according to our guidelines are documented in a group-wide
register. These included gifts and resources provided to
holders of public office, donations and sponsorship measures,
and consultancy and intermediary contracts. For information
on donations and sponsorship see G4-EC1, page 27.
Promotion of corporate volunteering
See G4-EC8, page 30.
Promotion of education on energy and engineering issues
“Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generate enthusiasm among young people for energy and technological issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future
with them in this context. “3MalE – Education with Energy”
bundles the education packages of all RWE companies in
Germany. The initiative is intended to help young people

research, discover and experience energy. For figures on
3MalE see G4-SO1, page 63.
innogy Foundation for Energy and Community playing a
role as a corporate citizen
Since 1 September 2016, the RWE Foundation has been
operating in a new form as the innogy Foundation for
Energy and Community (innogy Stiftung für Energie und
Gesellschaft gGmbH). The innogy Foundation supports projects, collaborations and campaigns that focus on the
energy transition in the regional context, digitalisation and
education. The foundation regularly provides information
transparently about projects, successes and finance in its
annual reports.
Supporting structural change in areas with opencast mining
A contribution to a broad spectrum of jobs and training
places in other companies can be made in the area of opencast mining by the development of building land and industrial zones. Research leisure amenities can also be expanded.
These developments will contribute to safeguarding the
future in the region over the long term. Our objective is to
remain a dependable partner for local people and communities after opencast mining comes to an end. We are therefore collaborating with the region to shape the structural
change by supporting initiatives which drive forward
economic and structural development. These include the
Innovation Region Rhineland Industrial Area (Innovationsregion Rheinisches Revier, IRR) and joint ventures between
local authorities, such as the Indeland Development
Company and the Terra Nova Special-purpose Association.
Our contribution ranges from providing specialist and financial assistance, through cooperation on master plans and
individual projects, to research into sectors of the future.
For example, we are involved in a project to safeguard the
energy location Weisweiler, a scheme to promote structural
diversity in arable areas, and an initiative to create community areas by expanding the recreational and leisure amenities at the future Inden legacy lake.

G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported
As an operator of energy infrastructures, we help to ameliorate fuel poverty in the countries where we are operating –
particularly where the government and civil society do not
provide enough support. We carry out appropriate activities

in the regions where innogy has operations with residential
customers. For more information on this see innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Access – management
approach, page 97.

30 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-EC8 Significant indirect impacts, including the extent of impacts
We promote volunteering by our employees under the
umbrella of the group-wide Corporate Volunteering Programme known as Companius (including “Aktiv-vor-Ort” –
Active on Site). Targeted formats help us to allocate employees to a volunteering role appropriate to them. In 2016,
more than 1,750 employees dedicated their time to providing assistance on around 1,000 projects. The amount contributed to these projects totalled some € 1.8 million during
the period under review.

Over recent years, the number of volunteering team projects
in the TeamAktiv Companius Programme has steadily
increased. In 2016, more than 1,060 employees once again
made a commitment in 106 team projects. In addition, the
scheme AZUBI@WORK meets Companius combines the
development of expertise and skills of apprentices at RWE
with volunteering engagement.
For information on promoting education and on Companius
projects in the area of providing aid for refugees see
G4-SO1, page 63.

Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management approach
Challenges
Stakeholders are challenging RWE to use their purchasing
policy to exert influence on their suppliers. Sustainability in
the supply chain is increasingly becoming a precondition for
participating in tenders made to industrial customers and is
being included in public procurement. However, there are
virtually no binding international standards for environmental protection, human rights, occupational safety and combatting corruption.
Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard
coal and natural gas and biomass, as well as trading in combustion fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised
products with defined quality attributes on international
wholesale markets. These markets are the most important
source of procurement, and raw materials traded here often
change ownership several times after they have been first
offered for sale by the producers. Generally, it is only possible for us to identify the immediate upstream owner, while
the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not
known. There are therefore only direct supplier relationships
to a limited extent between RWE and the producers. Even
though environmental and social compatibility play an
important role for us in production, this in turn means that
we have virtually no opportunities at this point to exert any
direct pressure on production conditions.
The procurement volume for energy sources in 2016 was
around € 7.6 billion. Alongside fossil energy sources, RWE
will again be refocusing on biomass as a combustion fuel in
future. One such fuel relates to wood pellets for use in dedicated biomass power stations. RWE also used biomass for

co-firing plants. Environmental and socially ethical extraction and production methods also have to be guaranteed in
this area in order to establish biomass as a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels. Appropriate rules and regulations are
enshrined in the relevant national legislation. In the Netherlands, these conditions are defined in the Biomass Pact
which RWE and other energy producers concluded with a
group of non-governmental organisations.
Furthermore, we procure goods, services and plant components for the operation, maintenance, new-build and decommissioning of our plants. Around 26,000 suppliers are registered in our supplier portfolio for procurement of these
resources. Some 380 of these suppliers are of particular strategic importance. We are in regular and close contact with
all these specific suppliers. The purchasing volume for
goods, services and plant components for the RWE Group
(including innogy) was about € 6.1 billion in 2016. Here,
too, our stakeholders expect environmental, health and
safety, and energy efficiency aspects to play a role in procurement as a matter of principle.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Monitoring of trading partners in wholesale markets
In cooperation with our suppliers, we intend to comply with
and promote international environmental and social standards. This is an obligation defined by our Code of Conduct
and our principles of conduct. Before we enter into any business relationships with our suppliers, we review all potential
trading partners. The review takes place in a standardised
and multistage process. We use international databases and
information systems in order to see whether there is any

31 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

potential misconduct. Since 2014, we have also had access
to the information garnered in the Bettercoal Initiative. All
our trading partners are checked in this way. The number of
our licensed trading partners varies and is generally more
than 1,000.

with trade union officials from FNV, one of the biggest
Dutch trade unions, and came together with representatives
of the coal producers, Colombian unions and government
representatives. In November, we participated in a comparable visit to South Africa.

Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain
Collaborations with other energy companies are absolutely
essential. These allow us to exert more pressure in order to
meet the requirements for sustainable production and transport conditions in view of the fact that direct delivery relationships are usually lacking. In 2012, we therefore joined
forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the
Bettercoal Initiative. Bettercoal uses a central database to
provide its member companies with the results of audits and
the outcomes of self-assessments by the coal producers. A
binding improvement process based on the shortfalls identified follows each audit and self-assessment. The names of
the producers which have undergone a self-assessment or
an on-site audit are regularly listed on the Bettercoal website
– provided that the mines agree to publication. In June
2016, Bettercoal published its second annual report. At the
end of 2016, the Bettercoal database included comprehensive self-assessments of 26 mines, the results of six on-site
audits and a renewed audit incorporated in the agreed
improvement process. This provides information on the key
potential supply countries for Europe.

A grievance mechanism was set up in the Netherlands to
deal with incidents in the coal supply chain. The partner for
this is the National Liaison Office of the OECD in The Hague.
No grievances were filed there in the years 2015 and 2016.

Hard coal by supply countries in %
2016

2015

Germany

19.0

13.5

United Kingdom

15.7

16.3

Colombia

16.8

19.8

Poland

0.8

3.4

Russia

31.0

25.1

3.9

8.2

11.2

9.8

1.6

3.8

South Africa
USA
Other

The aim of Bettercoal is to bring about improvements in all
the important production countries and leverage coal production at an acceptable environmental and social standard
across the world.
Representatives of RWE additionally meet up with representatives of coal producers independently of concrete supply
relationships in order to initiate improvements and to offer
assistance. For example, in May 2016, we worked together

Procurement of certified biomass
Certificates guarantee compliance with sustainability
aspects along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets
imported by us. We use the new industrial standard of the
Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP). RWE has been
involved in the SBP Initiative since it was established. So far,
the United Kingdom and Denmark have acknowledged the
SBP Standard as being compliant with the national sustainability criteria. At all levels of the supply chain, we also use
certificates provided by the Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest
Certification (PEFC). All the biomass supplied by our trading
house RWE Supply & Trading is provided with certificates of
this nature. The pellets are certified in accordance with differing standards, but in each case they are produced in compliance with at least one standard.
RWE has collaborated with other energy suppliers, pellet
suppliers and certification organisations in working out a
practical test initiated by the Dutch Sustainability Protocol
for Biomass. The protocol was developed by the Dutch government together with energy companies and non-governmental organisations. It has proved robust in testing and is
scheduled to become law in 2017.
Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all
contractual relations
When procuring goods, services and plant components
through Group Procurement, all suppliers of RWE must take
account of the relevant international environmental, social
and compliance standards. Where necessary they should
also consider other detailed requirements. We therefore
include information about how our suppliers comply with
sustainability requirements in our purchasing decisions.
The ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), our
Code of Conduct and other detailed guidelines form the
basis for these requirements.

32 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

We can make our Code of Conduct and the principles of the
UNGC a constituent element of individual contracts when
we have direct relationships with suppliers. This enables us
to communicate a clearly defined set of expectations to our
suppliers and service providers.
We use an initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a
self-assessment to gather information on matters including
environmental protection, occupational safety and compliance.
We are in regular and close communication with strategic
suppliers. Across the Group, our supplier management is a
key building block for these contacts within the strategic

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

procurement process and the same holds true for innogy.
This management encompasses supplier selection, evaluation, classification and development. We always take
account of the perspective of the suppliers.
When any problems occur in the course of a business relationship, we address the matter with our suppliers and work
together with them to achieve improvements jointly. We routinely monitor the proportion of the purchase volume in
which the requirements of our Code of Conduct are a constituent element of the contractual relationship. During the
year under review, the level of coverage was 99.7%.

G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local supplies at significant locations of operation
Most of our procurement is carried out with suppliers at our
main business locations or in the relevant countries and
regions. Approximately 95% of procurement is carried out
by Group Procurement in the relevant regions. All capital
expenditure projects and procurement procedures are
offered in tender documents with appropriately neutral for-

mulations. The tenders are then placed in the international
marketplace. The value in use analysis undergone by our
suppliers focuses particularly on criteria of sustainability,
occupational safety, energy efficiency and environmental
standards.

Aspect: Availability and Reliability – Management approach
Challenges
Supply with electricity is one of the most important enablers
for the smooth-running operation of our economy. We want
to guarantee our customers a secure and affordable supply
of electricity and gas at all times. We make a key contribution to this functional requirement with our power plants.
The more the feed-in supply from renewable energy sources
into the electricity grid fluctuates, the more important this
contribution becomes. The expansion and integration of
renewable energies and decentralised generating units
involve continually increasing demands for the performance
of distribution grids and for conventional power plants.
Our power plants help to compensate for the fluctuations
in the system and provide the physical equilibrium at all
times between feed-in and consumption necessary for
stable electricity supply. RWE publishes comprehensive
and timely data on power generation in its power plant
portfolio at www.rwetransparent.com and at
www.eex-transparency.com.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Ensuring security of supply
Conventional power plants are still necessary to provide a
secure and reliable electricity supply in spite of the further
expansion of renewable energies. The volatile feed-in from
wind and solar plants means that gaps in supply could regularly occur without these conventional sources of electricity.
The conventional RWE power plants are ideally suited to this
function and therefore make a significant contribution to
security of supply. Even in the exceptionally rare case of a
blackout, we have power plant capacities which are capable
of supporting the reinstatement of the grid systems – for
example in lignite with so-called supply islands from power
plants and opencast mines or with power plants which have
their own energy supply for start-up. In 2016, the relevant
fuels for secure operation of our power stations were available at all times.
In 2016, German lawmakers passed an act to limit the period
of security standby and subsequent shutdown of a total of
eight lignite-fired power station units with a combined out-

33 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

put of 2.7 GW. The aim is for the power plants to be gradually taken out of the market and then be available in each
case for a period of four years to provide security for the
electricity supply. The operators of the lignite-fired power
station units scheduled for decommissioning are to contribute through security standby to closing the identified gap in
the German greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2020 with
an additional reduction of 12.5 million mt CO2 net. RWE
Generation is participating with five units amounting to a
total of approximately 1.5 GW generating output.
These include two units each at Frimmersdorf (1 October
2017) and Niederaußem (1 October 2018), and one unit at
Neurath (1 October 2019). The maintenance of the powerplant units on standby for a period of four years will be

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

remunerated. The negotiations on the level of the remuneration are currently being conducted with the Federal Network
Agency.
Ensuring energy distribution
Integration of renewable energies requires newly sized
energy distribution grids and more dynamic load management. innogy has defined its target for achieving this as continuing to maintain grid outage times at a low level in spite
of higher technical requirements. We use the number of minutes of power outages that occur for each customer and
year as the key performance indicator in the area of security
of supply. For information on the System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) see EU29 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 98.

EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term
The development of conventional generating capacity present on the grid at RWE Generation depends on the competitive situation in the wholesale market and on decisions
by lawmakers. In addition to the gradual shutdown of our
German nuclear power plants in accordance with the resolution on exit from nuclear power by the Federal Government
and security standby for lignite-fired power stations, we
have announced the shutdown of the hard-coal unit at the
Gersteinwerk power plant on economic grounds. The two
hard-coal units at the Voerde power plant are to be shut
down at the end of the first quarter of 2017.
We are continuing to pursue the option of the new-build
project for the lignite-fired power station “Optimised Unit
Plus” (BoAplus) at the Niederaußem power plant site. However, for this new-build unit we would shut down old power

plant units with a greater capacity when the new unit
started up so that capacity would fall overall. See Aspect:
Efficiency of the Power Plant Portfolio and Distribution
Grid – management approach, page 37. We have just introduced the licensing procedures required for protection
under pollution laws. Nevertheless, we would not currently
take a favourable construction decision under the present
economic framework conditions.
The long-term development of demand for conventional
generation and secured power-plant output depends on a
number of factors including the expansion of renewable
energies and their volatile feed-in, as well as the expansion
of grids, batteries and load management. We do not have
any significant influence on their expansion and use.

Aspect: Demand-side Management – Management approach
Challenges
Since 2014, the reduction of existing obstacles to the
exploitation of additional potential for flexibility on the
demand side in the electricity market has been under continual discussion at European and national level. The intelligent
networking of consumers to achieve this aim is becoming
increasingly important in this debate. The need for flexibility
on the demand side increases with the rising volatility of
generation in the marketplace. This is particularly the case in
the context of expanding renewable energies. These flexibil-

ities need to be intelligently networked and controlled. This
process is described as the demand response. A prerequisite
for this is identifying consumers in the market who are prepared to control their consumption flexibly in response to a
price signal. In order to achieve this control, they need to
structure their energy consumption accordingly, for example
by proactively switching off, throttling back or switching on
their production machines. We are able to give our customers technical support for this control. The appropriate volumes of energy are then provided on the market to meet

34 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

demand or they are taken out of the market if there is excess
supply. When prices are high on the balancing energy market, it may be worthwhile for our customers to market their
flexibilities. Demand response therefore helps to optimise
the electricity costs and performance requirement of the
customer. The market for flexibility is a key subject area for
RWE. There is potential for growth here, particularly with
industrial customers.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Marketing of flexibilities
Our trading segment has a broad product range which can
leverage potential flexibilities with industrial and commercial
customers in the context of the energy transition. This range
includes:
QQ the optimisation of energy procurement by means of

high-quality forecasts, and therefore reduction of costs
for compensation energy
QQ the optimisation of booked power and grid usage fees
through load and generation management
QQ the deployment of emergency power units for grid stabilisation.
Our trading segment offers our industrial customers and
distributors price-signal supported load management. This
means that a time shift in consumption loads to more
favourable market-price phases enables costs for sourcing
electricity to be reduced. The model is ideal in particular for
companies using consumers with flexible time and power
capability in their production processes which can be shifted

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

within a day or a week. Initial experiences demonstrate a
substantial potential for optimisation which we leverage
within the scope of value-sharing models.
Our Flex2Market Model is ideal for companies which have
production flexibilities that they would like to make optimum use of over the short term. For this purpose, we market
these flexibilities on the Intra-Day Market or as standard
energy in the secondary and minute reserve market.
RWE Supply & Trading also offers an electronic trading
platform and automatic trading mechanisms. These are
intended for industrial customers and distributors who want
to procure part of their energy requirement on the exchange
with precise requirements for the day or hour. Furthermore,
as a service for our customers, RWE Supply & Trading
takes over direct marketing of power generation from renewable energies that are subsidised under the Renewables
Energies Act (EEG).
innogy also offers its customers demand-response products.
For these see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in
Aspect: Demand-side Management – management approach,
page 45. Furthermore, innogy offers products that help
retail and business customers to make energy savings. These
include energy saving advice, electricity and heat storage
devices for households, and service packages for the management of photovoltaic systems and wind turbines. For
more information on this see the innogy Sustainability
Report 2016 in Aspect: Energy – management approach,
page 50 and Aspect: Products and Services – management
approach, page 64. The corresponding service package is
naturally also available to our industrial customers.

Aspect: Research and Development – Management approach
Challenges
RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the
Group is able to contribute to shaping the energy system of
the future. We want to be involved in shaping the transformation to a more climate-friendly electricity supply. Our
objective is also to assist in continuing to meet the need for
energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable prices.
The only effective approach to realising our ambition is generating a continuous stream of innovations that address the
challenges of our core business and are directed towards
achieving the best possible solutions for the energy system
of the future.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Continuous research and development
For this purpose, the technology and plant concepts that are
currently mainly directed towards advanced and sustainable
application are developed further in different research and
development programmes. Here we draw on the competences of our employees and on the expertise offered by our
partners at universities, research institutions and industry. A
top priority in this area is also promoting the ideas of our
employees to achieve this ambition. Our research and development projects are engaged in a wide range of research
fields and we are continually registering new patents. In
2016, 380 employees worked full-time or part-time on
around 240 R&D projects and filed applications for patents
on 61 inventions. RWE also invests in a group-wide network

35 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

of experts who analyse existing fields of technology on a
continuous basis, and identify and evaluate new developments.
Details on research and development at innogy are provided
in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Research
and Development – management approach, page 46.
Enhancing the flexibility and efficiency of conventional
power plants
Climate protection and operation of conventional hard-coal
and gas-fired power stations are not two fundamentally contradictory concepts. Ambitious expansion of renewable
energies can only be achieved on the basis of a flexible, fossil-fired power plant portfolio which secures supply at all
times and under all weather conditions. This is especially the
case in Germany, given the existing legislation on exiting
from nuclear energy. In order to further increase the flexibility of our power plants, we are running a number of research
projects to test new materials and procedures for identification and forecasting of material behaviours under changing
loads. This will enable us to facilitate even more frequent
and faster load changes, more frequent and faster start-ups
and shut-downs, and a lower minimum load than today.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Furthermore, we see emission reduction and protection of
resources as an ongoing challenge directed towards making
our plants even more climate friendly. Examples of this are
approaches for efficiency enhancement and advanced development of flue-gas desulphurisation, development of measures for reducing mercury emissions, and the advancement
of techniques for capture and use of CO2. At our Innovation
Centre in Niederaußem, we are piloting one of the most efficient CO2 scrubbers in the world and cooperating with the
Jülich Research Centre on developing opportunities to make
use of CO2.
Facilitating use of lignite as a material
The utilisation capacity of the lignite-fired power stations
will decrease over the medium term as renewable energies
expand. This offers the opportunity of using lignite, Germany’s most abundant domestic natural resource by volume,
for the production of energy sources or basic chemicals. Lignite is ideal for so-called material use because it contains
carbon and hydrogen. This means it can be used for the production of starting materials for the production of plastics,
paints, adhesives, fuels and numerous other chemical
products.

Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – Management approach
Challenges
The European Union is striving to achieve a 40% reduction
in the emission of greenhouse gases by 2030 compared with
the baseline year of 1990. Germany has already made a
commitment to this target for 2020. The European Emissions Trading Scheme is the key tool for achieving this objective. Other instruments include measures adopted at
national level that exert an impact on our fossil-fired power
station portfolio. An exit from coal is one of the measures
being debated in the Netherlands. However, the Economics
Ministry does not currently see any need for a premature
decommissioning of hard-coal power stations. This assessment could change if the evaluation of CO2 minimum targets
for 2020 indicates that additional measures appear to be
necessary. The future approach therefore continues to
remain open. Conversely, the United Kingdom has already
defined an exit from hard-coal power generation by 2025.
The only issue still to be decided is the tool to be deployed.
The decision on so-called security standby has already been
taken in Germany. By 2019, 2.7 GW of lignite-fired power

stations in Germany will be transferred to this operating
mode. The plan is for these power plants not to be used for
a period of four years unless there is a supply bottleneck.
Furthermore, a decline in the amount of electricity generated from hard coal was announced in connection with the
Climate Protection Plan 2050. However, this statement was
given without the trajectory being anchored in any concrete
measures and no dates were specified, see Aspect: Availability and Reliability – management approach, page 32.
Germany has also taken a decision to bring the use of
nuclear power for energy production to an end by 2022 following the serious nuclear accident at the Fukushima-Daiichi
power plant in the Japanese region of Sendai.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Decommissioning of power plants
Our actions are complying with political developments. We
are removing older power plants from the grid, shutting
them down and ensuring professional decommissioning in
conformity with national standards.

36 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

The service life of the nuclear power stations is defined in
the Nuclear Power Act (Atomgesetz, AtG). The age of the
RWE nuclear power stations means that they will be decommissioned gradually by year-end 2022. The individual power
plants impacted are Gundremmingen Unit B (31 December
2017), Gundremmingen Unit C (31 December 2021) and the
Emsland nuclear power station (31 December 2022). In addition, initial applications have already been submitted for shutdown and decommissioning of the nuclear power stations
Biblis A and B, which were already taken out of operation in
2011. We are expecting to receive the approval in spring of
2017. In parallel, we started to set up a storage facility to
accommodate the low and medium-grade radioactive waste
from operation and decommissioning in October 2016.
We have also submitted an initial application for decommissioning parts of the Gundremmingen B reactor and we are
expecting approval for this application at the end of 2017.
The Mülheim-Kärlich nuclear power plant stopped operating
in 1988. Modifications in the operation of the plant have
been ongoing as the decommissioning process continues
and additional parts of the primary circuit have been decommissioned. The approval for demolishing the cooling tower
has been in place since February 2017. The demolition work
is likely to start in May. We keep stakeholders informed at all
the sites through a special transparency initiative. This provides information about the individual milestones during the
current procedure.
We have also taken coal-fired power stations out of operation. In Germany, the Westfalen C and D plants were shut
down in 2015. As a result of the national Dutch Energy
Agreement, five coal-fired power stations were shut down
on 31 December 2015, including the Amer 8 operated by
RWE. The Tilbury and Didcot A plants and the Fawley and
Littlebrook oil-fired plants have also been removed from the
grid in the United Kingdom and decommissioning has commenced. This means that we are complying with the requirements of the European Large Combustion Plant Directive.
After bringing the four-year security standby to an end, we
will finally shut down five lignite-fired power plant units in
Germany, see Aspect: Availability and Reliability – management approach, page 32. As a result, the last two lignite-fired units operated at the Frimmersdorf location are
being decommissioned. Against this background, a planning
consultation has already been launched there. This involves
the surrounding local authorities and the Rhine District of

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Neuss. The consultation is addressing the future opportunities for usage of the areas. Ultimately, it will involve developing sustainable and structurally effective post-utilisation
facilities for the Frimmersdorf power-plant location.
Setting provisions aside
RWE AG is committed to its obligations in the framework for
decommissioning nuclear energy. We have set aside provisions for these requirements, which are extremely conservative, even on an international comparison. They include significant provision against the risks of cost increases.
The operators of the nuclear power stations pay for all the
costs of decommissioning. They have a statutory obligation
to set aside an appropriate level of provisions for decommissioning. We have also recognised an appropriate level of
provisions for the decommissioning process in the Annual
Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 134 to 136. They are formed
during the operation of the plants and they are valued
appropriately in a conservative approach. The provisions
comprise the costs for all stages of the post-operational
phase and decommissioning, through disposal of fuel rods
and radioactive waste from operation, to final storage and
complete dismantling. They are updated annually on the
basis of current contracts, expert opinions and statements
by internal and external experts. These provisions are
audited by an independent auditor. The appropriateness of
the level of nuclear energy provisions was also confirmed in
the context of the stress test expert report by Warth & Klein
Grant Thornton. On the basis of previous experience, the
costs for the post-operational phase and decommissioning
of a nuclear power station are between € 500 million and
€ 1 billion. This final figure depends on the size, age and
operating hours of the plants.
From our perspective, the division of responsibility between
company and state defined by lawmakers is transparent. The
legislation essentially follows the recommendations which
the commission appointed by the German Federal Government submitted for the review of financing the exit from
nuclear energy (KFK) at the end of April 2016. The review
indicates that the Federal Government should pay for the
processing and financing of the intermediate and final storage of radioactive waste. The responsibility for the shutdown and decommissioning of plants, and packaging the
radioactive waste remains with the company. The functions
transferred to the Federal Government will be financed from
a fund which is provided by the power plant operators. The

37 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

legislation stipulates that the companies must pay a basic
amount totalling € 17.4 billion. If they pay a supplement
amounting to 35.47%, they can gain indemnity from the liability risks arising from any increases in costs. This yields a
total amount of € 23.6 billion for the companies. We estimate that the share to be paid by RWE for the basic amount
and the risk surcharge amounts to a total of € 6.8 billion. A
major factor for the utilities is that the Federal Government
has also granted them contractual protection of legitimate
expectation extending beyond the legislation in relation to
future changes in the law.
RWE also accepts responsibility in full for complying with
future mining obligations arising from our opencast operations. RWE has formed mining-related provisions for the
purpose of ensuring rehabilitation of sites. This includes
recultivation and measures relating to the water management. The provisions in mining are a so-called rolling system
in significant areas. The recultivation and precautionary
measures for the water management are largely carried out
during current operations so that they continually draw on

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

a rolling programme of provisions for this purpose. At the
same time, new provisions are formed each year to take
account of the continual advance of extraction operations.
Ultimately, although the expenditure to be paid by the
opencast mining industry will extend over a period of
decades and significantly beyond the discontinuation of
opencast mining itself, they are limited by time.
The provisions for decommissioning our opencast sites have
been recognised in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG,
page 136. Existing contracts and licensing documents are
used to determine the expected costs underlying the provisions. Comprehensive empirical values from the past are
also available. At the planning stage of all mining operations, the responsible regional state authorities are already
intensively involved. The issues being addressed include
those relating to geology or water management. The mining
authorities have a rolling programme of reviews in accordance with statutory regulations in order to assess whether
there is a need to provide financial security in addition to
the provisions available.

Aspect: System Efficiency (power plant portfolio and distribution) – Management approach
Challenges
In order to meet regulatory, economic and environmental
requirements, we are continually increasing the efficiency of
our conventional plants. The European climate protection
targets can only be achieved with higher levels of energy
efficiency. As producers of electricity and heat, we are able
to make a particular contribution to this by making our
power plants more efficient. This allows us to reduce CO2
emissions per unit of electricity or heat produced. At the
same time, we are reducing the consumption of resources.
Increasing efficiency is also a key issue in the distribution
grid. For more information on this see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Efficiency of the Power Plant
and Distribution Grid – management approach, page 47.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Increasing the efficiency of conventional power plants
We are driving energy efficiency forward in our power plant
portfolio and in other company activities. This makes sense
in business terms and environmentally. After all, higher lev-

els of efficiency in energy use enable us to reduce our combustion fuel costs and cut our CO2 emissions for each converted unit of energy. This enables us to bring down our
expenditure on CO2 certificates as well.
We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production
of electricity mainly by continuously modernising our conventional power plant portfolio. We are thereby keeping
open the option of building the new “Optimised Unit Plus”
(BoAplus) lignite-fired power station at the Niederaußem
site. This would have an efficiency of more than 45% and
substitute legacy plants with more capacities overall and significantly lower efficiency, see EU10, page 33. As a result,
the CO2 emissions would be reduced by 3 million metric tons
of CO2 each year by comparison with the legacy plants. In
future, we will achieve more efficiency increases through a
number of measures including enhanced replacement of
hard coal by biomass, see Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43 and by shutting down older plants.
In addition, there is the option of further use of potential

38 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

derived from combined heat and power in our plants and
the use of heat derived from electricity to cover own
requirements.
Already since 2008, we have been monitoring the overall
efficiency of energy use from our conventional plants. On
the consumer side of the plant, this includes the primary
energy use for power generation and the purchase of electricity from outside sources for own use by the plants. The

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

production side balances this with generated energy, and
steam and heat products for our customers. As a result, continuous monitoring using our advanced operating management systems enables us to implement rapid countermeasures as necessary and maximally high energy efficiency of
the primary energy sources used in all operating statuses of
the plants. Furthermore, analysis of the data yields valuable
findings for research and development requirements.

EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime

Efficiency of energy use¹ in %

2016

2015

Germany
36.6

36.3

Hard coal

38.1

38.4

Gas

62.7

66.7

Waste

44.0

46.7

Hard coal

37.0

37.4

Gas

55.9

55.9

Hard coal

45.4

44.8

Gas

64.0

66.5

	Lignite

United Kingdom

Netherlands

1 Not including power stations in Hungary and Turkey.

At 41.5% we have succeeded in increasing the average
efficiency of our energy use compared with 2015 (40.2%).
Current market conditions can exert a positive and negative
influence here on the mode of operation and hence the efficiency of the power plant portfolio. A renewed increase in

the use of gas-fired power stations exerted a positive impact
during the year under review, while lower heat production
and increased partial load operation exerted a negative
impact.

EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy
German operators of distribution grids have losses across all voltage levels between approximately 2.0% and 4.5%.
For example Westnetz has published details relating to 2015.

39 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Environmental Performance Indicators
Aspect: Energy – Management approach
Challenges
The European Efficiency Directive has been implemented
in the national law of our important markets. This legislation
obliges all large companies either to carry out an energy
audit, or introduce an Energy Management System in conformity with ISO 50001 or an Environmental Management
System in compliance with EMAS. There are comparable
legislative requirements in other European countries.
We implement economic measures related to environmental
protection and energy efficiency which exceed compliance
with statutory requirements and legislation governing the
issue of licences. These measures are derived by adopting
an ethical and responsible approach to the environment,
and cover the use of energy in our office buildings, vehicle
fleets, opencast mines, power plants and refinement facilities. Careful use of energy also makes economic sense.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Group-wide coverage for environmental management
system
The structural requirements for the management of occupational health and safety, environment, energy and other
issues are largely similar. We are therefore dealing with them
in an integrated management system for reasons of synergy.
All RWE companies are committed in accordance with their
guidelines to setting up an appropriate Environmental
Management System. This needs to comply with the requirements of the international ISO 14001 standard. Annual
audits ensure compliance with this obligation. In this context, we also strengthen the energy and environmental
awareness of our employees through training sessions and
by providing other information, as well as direct dialogue.
This approach requires a continuous improvement process
as a key target of our environmental corporate policy. We
identify, evaluate and roll out measures systematically in
order to improve the energy-based performance and protection of the environment. The percentage coverage by our

Environmental Management System gives us a key performance indicator. The coverage level of environmental management in relation to the Group amounted to 100% in
2016. 89% of this was certified externally.
Group-wide coverage of energy efficiency audits or
management systems
We have defined a goal of rolling out group-wide energy
efficiency audits or management systems in a timely
approach. In 2007, the Conventional Power Generation Division had already established an Environmental Management
System in conformity with ISO 14001 with the aim of bringing about a sustainable improvement in energy efficiency
and environmental protection, and reducing the use and
consumption of energy at the German operational facilities.
In 2013, the Energy Management System was integrated in
conformity with ISO 50001. The two systems have so far
been successfully recertified. This process was last carried
out in 2016. The level of coverage with certified Energy
Management Systems amounted to 69% for the RWE Group.
In 2015, all RWE companies with more than 250 employees
were audited for energy efficiency by an external service
provider. We have therefore promptly complied with the regulations implemented under German legislation. These rules
are defined in the Energy Efficiency Directive of the European Union. The Eemshaven hard-coal power station located
in the Netherlands constitutes an exception. The audit there
took place in 2016 because commercial operation was only
started up in 2015. We obtained a special licence for this. In
Hungary, the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group was the first energy company to receive a certificate in compliance with ISO 50001.
In Germany, compliance with the statutory regulations
resulting from the management system of conventional
power generation has been successfully tested by the Federal Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control (Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle, BAFA) in three
random samples without any objections.

40 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation

Unit

2016

2015

Primary energy consumption¹

million GJ

1,478

1,467

Energy consumption of the sites

TWh

8.2

7.7

Energy consumption of the grids

TWh

8.6

8.5

1 Fossil fuels used, not including biomass.

Aspect: Water – Management approach
Challenges
The water supply in Germany is one of the best in the world.
However, we believe that as an industrial operation with a
requirement for water at our plants we have an obligation to
take a responsible approach to water. Our operations affect
water consumption and the use of water when it is withdrawn
from the rivers, surface waters and groundwater. Naturally,
there are also impacts when we discharge wastewater into
these waters. We comply with the statutory regulations for
these activities. Investors are in fact increasingly placing this
demand on us and other companies.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
A top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts
minimum impact on natural resources when we supply our
thermal power plants with cooling water. Dewatering in our
opencast sites is an operational necessity and therefore unavoidable. We attempt to make these interventions in a maximally environmentally friendly way.
Establishing environmental protection in business processes
See Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43.
Group-wide coverage for environmental management
See Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39.
Compliance with approval regulations
See Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43.
Minimising risks associated with water
The Executive Board has appointed specialist coordinators
for a wide range of environmental topic areas in order to
provide specialist support for the local Water Protection
Officers and to coordinate their activities. They also advise
the divisional managers. In addition, these coordinators

cover the protection of rivers and surface waters. A record is
kept of the interfaces of RWE activities with water that exert
or can exert an impact on rivers and surface waters. The
type of impact on the water is also determined. This relates
primarily to water withdrawal or discharge of water including
the use of water in our power plants. We record the impacts
of environmental aspects for rivers and surface waters on
the basis of existing licences, limits and expert reports, and
the operating results of the previous year. The relevance of
the results is evaluated by the internal specialist departments and a group of experts taken from government agencies, associations and experts. Analysis of the environmental
impacts in relation to the potential level of damage and frequency or probability of occurrence facilitates transparent
presentation of the evaluation. We assess measures already
introduced for minimising risks and avoiding accidents on
this basis. If this action is not adequate, other measures are
developed and introduced.
Protection of rivers and surface waters
We want to contribute to preserving water as a habitat and
to maintaining the biotopes dependent on it. Our objective
is to avoid negative consequences of our interventions in
surface waters and ecosystems or – where this is not possible – to minimise such impacts as far as possible. We mitigate unavoidable negative consequences to the maximum
extent feasible. We also provide the best possible protection
against adverse impacts for aquatic habitats and other ecosystems linked with such habitats. This objective is assisted
by discharging water back into the ground and into surface
waters in a structured process. Furthermore, we avoid environmental impacts owing to the use of methods such as
recirculation, intensification of usage for pumped water from
opencast mines, the use of collected rainwater and the
reuse of process water.

41 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source

Unit

2016

2015

Cooling water consumption net¹

million m³

264.5

293.7

Water consumption net

million m³

267.7

297.3

Water

Water withdrawal
Groundwater

million m³

623

598

Surface water

million m³

1,447

2,141

Seawater/brackish water

million m³

4,170

4,248

Drinking water

million m³

3.2

3.5

Other sources

million m³

31.0

30.0

Total water withdrawal

million m³

6,270

7,016

1 Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with sea cooling.

Treatment of ash with water and scrubbing coal with water is not carried out at RWE.

Aspect: Biodiversity – Management approach
Challenges
Protecting diversity and preserving habitats is an important
mission for us. Our activities create direct and indirect interventions in ecosystems. Wherever feasible we avoid or minimise these impacts. As far as possible, we take appropriate
nature conservation measures to mitigate unavoidable or
irreversible negative consequences. This has impacts on our
opencast mines, the maintenance of our transmission lines
and the construction and operation of plants for generating
renewable energies. For more information on biodiversity in
the areas of Renewables and Grid & Infrastructure see the
innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Biodiversity –
management approach, page 52.

ries out its business activities. Biodiversity is also an area
covered by environmental management, see Aspect:
Energy – management approach, page 39. Our measures
are very diverse within this framework. We protect species
diversity strategically if natural habitats are disturbed by our
activities. The same approach continues as we reinstate substitute habitats or facilitate the repopulation of existing habitats. We also promote biodiversity by rehabilitating mining
sites to make them suitable for reuse. We install fish ladders
at our run-of-river power plants and use technical measures
to protect the aquatic animal world at offshore wind farms.
These measures contribute to the preservation of species in
these habitats.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Protecting biodiversity
Compliance with regulations governing biodiversity is also a
prerequisite for meeting the licensing regulations for our
business. The regulations governing biodiversity are defined
in a number of sources including the special operational
plans for species protection approved by the mining authorities. We meet these regulations using internal controlling
systems and exceed the requirements with more extensive
measures. Since 2015, RWE has had a Biodiversity Policy.
This guideline establishes the approach of RWE to the protection and promotion of biodiversity as the company car-

Reinstating habitats
We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining by
recultivating the extraction sites. This approach enables us
to return rehabilitated areas of land to agriculture and other
uses while also creating space for nature conservation where
we can strategically foster biological diversity. The objective
of recultivation is to reinstate the development potential of
the landscape while taking account of the typical conditions
of the surrounding environment. Reforestation is a key building block for this. RWE has established a reputation with its
approach on recultivation: A diverse landscape made up of
forest, extensive lakes, ponds and wetland biotopes came

42 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

into being at the former extraction sites in the Rhineland
lignite mining areas. They offer new habitats to numerous
endangered animal and plant species.
One example of our recultivation measures is provided by
the region around the Hambach opencast mining area. The
flora and fauna habitat of Steinheide/Lörsfelder Busch/Dickbusch subject to special protection is located in the immediate vicinity of the Hambach opencast mine. The objective of
the recultivation after lignite opencast mining has finished is
to preserve areas of forest and to manage them in accordance with a natural approach. Deforestation of the Hambach
forest for the planned development of the Hambach open-

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

cast mine is regrettably unavoidable, and it is not possible
to eliminate removal of the forest. However, after opencast
lignite mining ceases on the land, we will reinstate the forest
with appropriate recultivation measures. Furthermore, a
total of 1,500 hectares of species protection measures will
be implemented outside the opencast mine for the species
living in the wood.
We also safeguard the habitat for plants and animals in the
Elsbach Valley and we have additionally transformed the
Elsbach Valley into a popular leisure amenity. This now has
a length of over two kilometres and today, animal and plant
species under threat have a new home there.

G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity
value outside protected areas
Nature conservation areas are designated on the basis of
the German Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG)
and they are the responsibility of various authorities. In the
administrative district of Cologne, these areas are managed
by the district government as a higher nature conservation
authority provided that the areas have not already been
designated as the responsibility of the regional districts or
municipal city authorities. RWE and its subsidiary companies
are owners or leaseholders of parcels of land throughout
Germany. The actual number of these parcels of land and
the number of designated conservation areas around our
locations is undergoing continuous change across Germany.
For example, conservation areas are currently located alongside the operating area of our Hambach opencast mine.

They cover an area of some 1,620 hectares, see Aspect:
Biodiversity – management approach, page 41. These are
distributed over approximately 66 ha of nature conservation
area, approximately 1,554 ha of landscape conservation
area and some 0.56 ha of protected landscape elements.
The largest contiguous land area is the recultivated Sophienhöhe Forest covering an area of 1,194 ha. This is located on
the overburden dump of the Hambach opencast mine.
Continuous updating for all our parcels of land would take
a disproportionately high input of resources. Furthermore, it
is by no means certain that the digital data required from
the authorities for such an updating process would be sufficiently up to date to provide an accurate determination.

G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
The operation of nuclear and conventional power stations
and plants for generating electricity from renewable energies and for the production of lignite inevitably result in our
impacting on natural ecosystems. Harmful substances are
released during the generation of electricity and heat at our
power plants or the operation of our opencast mines, and
they could lead to negative impacts on the environment and
biodiversity. We are therefore committed to maintaining the
purity of air and water and to conserving natural ecosystems.

We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining
activities by recultivating the extraction sites. For recultivation of opencast mining areas see Aspect: Biodiversity –
management approach, page 41. The expansion of the
grid and the building and operation of plants for generating renewable energies also exert impacts on biodiversity.
For more information on this see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Biodiversity – management
approach, page 52.

43 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

EU13 Biodiversity of habitats protected or restored
In 2016, five landscape conservation areas located in the
Rhine-Erft district were designated under the legislation.
They cover the recultivated areas of the former Bergheim,
Fortuna and Frimmersdorf opencast mines. These areas were
placed under protection in order to preserve, develop and
reinstate the efficiency and function of the balance of nature,
including protection of biotopes and habitats of certain species of wild animals and plants. The evaluation criteria
included diversity, characteristic features and beauty, as well
as the special significance of the cultural history of the landscape and its particular significance as a recreational amenity.
This conservation success is also due to the quality of our
recultivation.

The new conservation areas cover an area of around 3,398 ha.
The age of the designated areas of opencast mine mean
that we are not aware of any listings as conservation areas
originating from before the period of opencast mining activities. The renaturalised post-mining landscape of today is in
fact structurally more diverse than was the case before its
use as a mining site. Alongside the quality of our recultivation, this diversity also contributed to designation of these
landscapes as conservation areas.

Aspect: Emissions – Management approach
Challenges
RWE is an energy utility with a high proportion of fossil combustion fuels in power generation. Climate protection and
the consequent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
therefore remain extremely important areas. The aim is to
establish a more sustainable alignment for our business
activities. This is especially true for the Conventional Power
Generation Division. The political debates and resolutions at
global, national and regional level demonstrate the extent
to which this topic defines the supervisory and social regulatory framework for RWE. In December 2015, the Paris Climate Agreement COP21 was adopted. This agreement committed all the signatory countries to jointly limiting the
global rise in temperature to a level significantly below 2
degrees celsius compared with the pre-industrial level. The
European Union is striving to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases by 40% compared with the baseline year of
1990 by 2030. Germany has already established this target
for 2020. This is a significant challenge because the exit
from nuclear energy needs to take place by the beginning of
the 2020s. Investors also challenge us on the topic of climate protection exemplified by the keyword decarbonisation. Demands are increasingly being placed on us to realign
our business model in the direction of lower CO2 emissions.
The political and regulatory framework conditions are currently undergoing change in the countries where we operate
fossil-fired power stations. Issues relating to the future of

coal-fired generation are being discussed in Germany, in the
United Kingdom and in the Netherlands, see Aspect: Plant
Decommissioning – management approach, page 35.
Developments in energy markets are also exerting an additional influence on our CO2 emissions. Power plants supply
their power generation at the costs they incur. The individual demand at any time determines which power plants are
used. Power plants with high generating costs are correspondingly deployed less frequently. The commodity prices
of gas and hard coal therefore also exert an influence on the
deployment of power stations. Power plant operators are
not permitted to withhold their generating capacities from
the market. Conditions in the marketplace have therefore
meant that our gas-fired power stations were particularly
well utilised in the United Kingdom and Germany this year
compared with 2015 on account of their specific CO2 emissions. However, utilisation of their capacity continued to
remain significantly behind the utilisation of our lignite-fired
and hard-coal power stations. For more information on the
economic framework conditions see the Annual Report
2016 of RWE AG, page 26 to 31.
Furthermore, carbon capture and usage or storage are other
options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Alongside
profitability, a prerequisite for rolling out projects involving
carbon capture and storage (CCS) would be an appropriate
legal framework and creation of acceptance for this technol-

44 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

ogy in the public domain. However, the existing statutory
framework conditions and the lack of acceptance mean that
implementation of CCS projects in Germany is currently not
possible.
Apart from CO2, emissions from electricity and heat production in conventional generating units also include sulphur
dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOX) and dust.
CO2 emissions derived from the upstream and downstream
value chain and noise emissions are a top priority for innogy.
For more information on this see the innogy Sustainability
Report 2016 in the Aspect: Emissions – management
approach, page 55.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Establishment of environmental protection in business
processes
A responsible approach to natural resources and promotion
of the use of environmental technologies is one of the principles governing conduct at RWE. This is recorded in the
Code of Conduct. The provisions of the Code of Conduct
were applicable for the entire RWE Group in 2016.
Group-wide coverage for environmental management
system
See Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39.
Compliance with planning approval regulations
Our key performance indicator in the area of environmental
protection is compliance with licensing regulations when
constructing and operating our plants and facilities. We
ensure compliance through regular checks at local level. Our
objective is to achieve operation of our power plants and
other facilities in compliance with licensing regulations. We
achieved this goal in 2016.
Reduction of financial risks
Financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected
in our risk management. We reduce these risks by concluding appropriate hedging transactions. At the same time, as
we sell a specific amount of electricity in the futures market,
we purchase the corresponding amounts of combustion fuel
required and any necessary emission certificates in order to
hedge our operations and minimise risk.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Reduction of our own CO2 emissions
We use the CO2 emissions from plants subject to the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and the total emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) as an
indicator for CO2. We also report generating plants there in
compliance with GHG if they are not included under the EU
ETS because of their geographical location or their size. The
same applies to CO2 emissions from biogenic fuels, and
plants which are not used for power generation. In order to
reduce the specific CO2 emissions, we carry out checks and
take appropriate measures in order to improve the efficiency
of our conventional power plants. Furthermore, we have
modernised our power plant portfolio with highly efficient
plants placing particular emphasis on gas-fired installations.
However, the use of these plants needs to be aligned with
the current conditions in the marketplace.
The operation of our lignite-fired power plants and the
associated CO2 emissions are limited by restrictions on the
production of lignite. At the beginning of July, the government of North Rhine-Westphalia reaffirmed its key decision
on the future of lignite production at the Garzweiler II opencast mine. The state government confirmed that the facility
is also required for the generation of energy after 2030. It
is estimated that the coal reserves at Garzweiler II approved
under planning regulations will be reduced by one third.
However, the current extraction capacities for the Hambach
and Inden opencast mines were also confirmed as being necessary from the economic perspective of the energy industry.
By 2020 compared with the present day, we will have
reduced our emissions produced in the generation of electricity from lignite by around 15% as a result of so-called
security standby. Between 2020 and 2030, additional
options for the reduction of CO2 will be available. One such
option is the potential increase in efficiency through construction of an “Optimised Unit Plus” (BoAplus) with the current level of efficiency and decommissioning of equivalent
capacity of other, older power plant units. As additional
renewable energies come on stream, there may be a further
reduction in the capacity utilisation of lignite-fired powerplant units. This could enable emissions to be reduced by
around a further 5% to 15% by 2030.

45 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

The closure of the Inden opencast mine and the associated
shutdown of the Weisweiler power plant will reduce CO2
emissions by a further 20%. We will therefore achieve total
CO2 reduction of approximately 40% to 50% as a result of
the generation of electricity from lignite by around 2030.
After this, the generation of electricity from lignite will continue to decline. The reduction will result from the further
expansion of renewable energies until around the middle of
the century, when the Garzweiler and Hambach opencast
mines will be closed. Until then only the highly efficient BoA
plants with optimised technology will be operated. This plan
is in harmony with the national and European climate protection targets by 2050.
Apart from lignite, other shutdowns are also being planned
or implemented. The plants Westfalen C, Tilbury, Didcot A
and Amer 8 have already been shut down and we anticipate
further CO2 reductions in our power plant portfolio. This will
come about through the shutdown of our Gersteinwerk
hard-coal power station, which we announced at the beginning of 2019, and the Voerde A/B hard-coal power station
in the first quarter of 2017.
Another factor in the equation is that we are partly replacing hard coal for firing our power plants with biomass. The
Amer 9 power plant in the Netherlands will achieve specific
emissions at the level of a combined-cycle gas turbine power
station. On the basis of the second tender round, RWE will
continue to receive SDE+ funding in future from the Dutch
programme for promoting renewable energies and other
financial support for the co-combustion of biomass at the
Amer 9 and Eemshaven sites. Starting in 2020, this will enable us to increase the proportion of biomass at the Amer 9
power plant by as much as 80%. We are able to co-incinerate
up to 15% biomass at Eemshaven. RWE is therefore able to
make an important contribution to the modernisation of the

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

energy system in the Netherlands. During the year under
review, we used 3.0 million metric tons of biomass (3.2 million
metric tons in 2015) at our plants. The market conditions
were such that we also brought more gas-fired power stations on stream, see Aspect: Economic Performance –
management approach, page 26.
Even though carbon capture and storage is currently not
yet accepted in Germany, we are continuing to engage in
research into the necessary technologies. We are using our
CO2 scrubbing facility in the Coal Innovation Centre at the
Niederaußem power plant to work on making carbon capture
even more efficient for generating electricity from fossil
fuels and biomass. At the same time we are also researching
into how the captured carbon can be used. For many years,
RWE has been committed to working on joint projects with
industry and research institutes. The objective is to return
the CO2 to the materials cycle as a raw material.
innogy is driving forward climate-friendly power generation
with the expansion of renewable energies. For more information on this see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016
in the Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 55.
Reduction of mercury, sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen
oxides (NOX) and dust particles
These emissions in our plants are below the statutory limits
with the assistance of primary and secondary emission
reduction measures such as firing technology, removal of
dust and desulphurisation. Despite the fact that some limits
have become more stringent during the period under review,
no incidents, hazard-related events or exceeding of relevant
limits occurred at any of our sites under emission pollution
laws that needed to be followed up as a result of breaches
of regulations. For more information on this see G4-EN21,
page 46.

G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)

Unit

2016

2015

CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS

million mt

148.3¹

150.8²

CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with GHG Protocol)³

million mt

154.0

152.3

1	Including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2016, these plants emitted
7.1 million mt of CO2 (previous year: 6.9 million mt).
2	Including generation of the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream
segment.
3	EU ETS generation plus the emissions from plants which are not subject to EU ETS.

46 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

Unit
CO2 emissions Scope 2¹

million mt

2016

2015

1.3

1.3

1 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties outside the Group in our own grids.

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)

CO2 emissions Scope 3¹

Unit

2016

2015

million mt

86.5

93.9

1	Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the
transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party electricity grids, the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the combustion of gas sold to
customers.

G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

Unit

2016

2015

Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS

mt/MWh

0.686

0.708

Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1

mt/MWh

0.713

0.715

G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
See reduction of our in-house CO2 emissions in Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 44.

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Negligible amounts of ozone-depleting substances, which
primarily relate to chlorinated hydrocarbons, are used in

coreprocesses at RWE so that there is no separate recording process for them.

G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions

Absolute emissions

Unit

2016

2015

NOX emissions

thousand mt

100.7

115.9

SO2 emissions

thousand mt

38.9

53.7

Particulate matter emissions

mt

2,680

3,580

Specific emissions in g/kWh

2016

2015

NOX emissions

0.47

0.54

SO2 emissions
Particulate matter emissions

0.18

0.25

0.012

0.017

47 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Apart from our research activities into capturing CO2 emissions on a pilot scale, we are working on advanced developments to reduce the emission of pollutants that are released
during the production of electricity and generation of heat
at our power plants. This is achieved by installing modern
burner technologies and optimised separation processes in
our power plant portfolio. One example of this is mercury,
where the advanced technologies used today for flue-gas
scrubbing already remove up to 90% of this harmful substance when pure coal is used for combustion. At the Coal
Innovation Centre in the Rhineland lignite mining area, we
are currently working on further improved procedures for
capturing mercury. One approach is to add furnace coke to
the flue gas. Since the 1980s, we have been using flue-gas
desulphurisation systems to capture SO2 from the flue gas.
This process involves the SO2 being scrubbed out with the
assistance of a limestone solution. The FGDplus concept
developed by the Coal Innovation Centre at the Niederaußem site has enabled us to further optimise the chemical
processes in desulphurisation and reduce our own in-house
requirement for electricity by comparison with conventional
flue-gas desulphurisation systems. After the technology was
initially tested on an industrial scale at the flue-gas train of
unit G in Niederaußem, it is now being successfully introduced in the two flue-gas trains of Unit H.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Reduction of air pollutants: dust and noise
Legislation requires opencast mines to be structured and
operated so that harmful environmental impacts are avoided
if this is possible with the current level of technology. If environmental impacts are unavoidable, they should be kept to a
minimum using the latest technology available. We are able
to fully comply with these obligations. These environmental
impacts connected with the operation of opencast mines are
primarily dust and noise pollution. We adopt suitable measures to reduce these emissions in a case by case approach
that takes into account the operational conditions and local
circumstances. Noise emissions are reduced by the use of
low-noise machinery, equipment and installations, encapsulating drive units, establishing facilities behind protective
ramparts and walls, and putting planting schemes in place
across sound propagation pathways. We take a number of
measures to reduce dust emissions (dust precipitation)
including treatment of open surfaces to prevent the removal
of dust. The action here includes covering with materials
that will not be blown away, spraying large areas with water
and other methods of binding dust to the surface. The individual methods are always carried out in consultation with
the supervisory authorities. Furthermore, operations monitoring stations at opencast mines are available 24/7 for any
citizens who may have issues, so that short-term remedies
can also be implemented if there is an incident of acute
noise pollution.

Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management approach
Challenges
As an energy generator we do not simply consume raw
materials. A responsible approach to resources includes
waste management. This enables us to comply with the
licensing regulations. Wastewater and waste are avoided as
far as possible. Unavoidable waste is disposed of in accordance with the statutory regulations. We ensure that all
safety regulations are complied with and relevant precautions are taken.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Ensuring sustainable waste disposal
Comprehensive waste management ensures that the waste
generated is transferred in accordance with the regulations
to reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal. Measures are taken
in order to meet these requirements, for example waste is
collected separately in suitable containers as far as possible
and handed over to a specialist disposal company.

The requirements defined in waste legislation have to be
taken into account for the disposal of the waste generated
in the course of our operations. Owing to the varying composition of waste and the resulting potential for hazard,
waste is classified into two categories: hazardous and nonhazardous waste. We also distinguish between recovery and
disposal. Waste subsequently undergoes further appropriate
treatment. During the project phase, new-build and maintenance of plants, an internal system records and analyses the
potential harm caused by waste disposal. Appropriate protective measures are also defined. Disposal information
systems are used for organising disposal services. These
information systems guarantee compliance with all the
applicable statutory and contractual conditions in the disposal of the waste generated.

48 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

We treat residual materials and waste from our nuclear
power plants which occur while they are being operated as
well as when the power plants are decommissioned. Treatment and disposal is carried out in accordance with the
statutory regulations. Only a small part of the entire mass of
the nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radioactive
materials when they are operational. The greatest proportion of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of
decontamination measures so that it can be released by the
government authorities and then returned to the normal
materials cycle. The remaining residue – only around 3% of
the total mass of a nuclear power station – is destined for
disposal in a final repository for radioactive waste. This
material primarily includes components near the core of the
reactor. Until the material has been consigned under statutory regulations to a final repository operated by the government, these waste materials and spent fuel rods will in
future be kept at an intermediate storage facility under the
responsibility of the German Federal Government.
Power plant residues are produced at our lignite-fired power
plants in the form of ash and FGD gypsum. The ash is largely
eliminated in residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in
accordance with approved plans. Most of the gypsum produced from the flue-gas desulphurisation (FGD) system is
recovered. Ash and gypsum from the hard-coal power stations is mainly forwarded for material recovery. A small
amount is disposed of.

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Avoid waste
The principle of avoidance, recovery and disposal provides
the platform for our waste management. Our top priority is
avoidance of waste. This conserves resources and protects
our employees and the environment. All organisational units
are therefore continually reviewing the possibility of avoidance for the waste that is produced within their area of
responsibility. This already happens in the course of the
planning and procurement process.
We continuously reduce the quantity of waste as much as
possible. One of the ways we do this is by optimising our
plants. Nevertheless, a distinction is drawn for the waste
actually incurred between reuse, recycling and other uses
of waste, for example recovery of energy. Disposal is only
permissible if recovery is not technically possible or is not
commensurate with commercial requirements.
Process wastewater
Our internal wastewater treatment facilities and their regular
monitoring ensure the prevention of potential contaminants.
We keep records in compliance with prescribed limits. This
process enables us to avoid negative impacts for the natural
environment and health.

G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination
The pollutant concentrations for wastewater discharged
from operational facilities are limited by the licensing
authorities with specification of monitoring values. These
values are defined in the relevant permits under water legislation. The monitoring values are checked by in-house moni-

toring systems and in the course of regular in-house surveys
and also in independent monitoring exercises carried out by
government agencies. The permissible monitoring values
ensure that a good ecological status and a good environmental potential can be achieved for the surface waters.

G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method
The reprocessing of irradiated nuclear fuel has not been
permitted in Germany since 1 July 2005. The Federal States
in Germany are responsible for final disposal of radioactive
waste.

Power plant residues from our hard-coal power stations
dominate the generation of waste. Out of a total of 8,201
mt, 25.7% of ash from hard-coal power stations is reused in
applications such as road and track construction. 100% of

49 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

the ash from the lignite-fired power stations is eliminated in
power-plant residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in
accordance with approved plans. The process of flue-gas
desulphurisation of our hard-coal power stations generates

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

gypsum produced from the flue-gas desulphurisation system. Most of this gypsum is passed on for recovery. Other
waste is also produced in the course of our operations. This
waste is forwarded for reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal.

Waste

Unit

2016

2015

Ash

thousand mt

8,201

8,495

Useable ash¹

thousand mt

1,567

1,632

Gypsum

thousand mt

2,042

2,172

Useable gypsum

thousand mt

1,105

1,259

Nuclear waste from power stations

thousand mt

267.3

325.1

Spent fuel elements

thousand mt

267.1

67.5

Total waste (not including residual materials)

thousand mt

8,015

8,253

of which hazardous waste

thousand mt

144

137

of which non-hazardous waste

thousand mt

7,871

8,116

1 On the basis of authority regulations, ash used to fill opencast mining sites can no longer be declared as recovery from 2010.

G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills
During the reporting period, no significant spills of harmful substances were recorded in the regular internal survey for RWE.

Aspect: Products and Services – Management approach
Challenges
Our customers demand that we provide support for them
with innovative technologies and services for the reduction
of their environmental impacts. This aspect is particularly
important for major industrial customers of our
RWE Supply & Trading segment and for innogy.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Supporting customers in saving energy
RWE Supply & Trading offers its industrial customers a portfolio of service packages, see Marketing of Flexibilities in
Aspect: Demand-side Management – management
approach, page 34.

The portfolio of innogy for commercial customers comprises
energy controlling, combined heat and power (CHP) and
other advice packages. For more information on this see
the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Products
and Services – management approach, page 64. innogy
offers retail customers products and services designed to
assist them in saving energy. For more information on this
see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect:
Energy – management approach, page 50.

G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services
When bringing down our own CO2 emissions in the generation of electricity, we simultaneously contribute to reduction of
the CO2 footprint of our electricity customers, for more information on this see Aspect: Emissions – management
approach, page 43.

50 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspekt: Compliance – Managementansatz
Challenges
Acting in accordance with the law and rules and procedures
is an integral part of our corporate culture at RWE. Any
breaches mean that the company can suffer major and serious reputational damage. RWE therefore bases all its activities and business decisions on established internal rules for
compliance. Appropriate compliance requirements are also
factored in when making decisions about entering into business relationships with suppliers or business partners. Many
activities in environmental protection extend beyond the
obligations arising from laws or licences for the operation of
opencast mines and power plants.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Establishing environmental protection in business processes
A responsible approach to natural resources and promotion
of the use of environmental technologies is one of the principles governing conduct at RWE and this principle is
enshrined in the Code of Conduct.
The provisions of the Code of Conduct were applicable
for the entire RWE Group in 2016.
Group-wide coverage for environmental management
See Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39.

G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations
During the year under review, no significant monetary and non-monetary sanctions were reported in a regular internal survey.

Aspect: Overview – Management approach
Challenges
We are committed to protecting the environment in a wide
variety of ways. We present the costs incurred transparently.
This complies with the expectations of our stakeholders.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Expenditure on environmental protection
Our activities for environmental protection incur various
costs that differ according to category. We provide a breakdown of these costs based on the areas of activity, see
G4-EN31, page 50.

G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type

Expenditure on environmental protection in € million

2016

2015

Air pollution control

217

228

Nature conservation and protection of the landscape

164

71

Water protection

176

168

Waste disposal

317

273

Noise abatement

7

9.5

Polluted sites, soil contamination

2

8

Climate protection

1,060

1,246

Total

1,944

2,002

51 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Management approach
See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30.

G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a
constituent element of contractual relationships for all new
and existing direct suppliers. Furthermore, the suitability of
suppliers is evaluated during the course of pre-qualification
on the basis of the hazard potential within a procurement

process. In such cases, compliance with the defined criteria
can be reviewed during the course of supplier appraisals and
used for future tender processes in the framework of the
internal appraisal system.

G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
We can only report on the number of suppliers for goods,
services and plant components audited for environmental
aspects and on the audits carried out in conjunction with
Bettercoal, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30.

During the year under review, 184 suppliers (2015: 285)
were surveyed about environmental protection. We regularly
audit all our suppliers for conformity with potential compliance risks. An exceptional situation arises when procurement
is carried out in the wholesale markets. Here, an appraisal is
not possible due to an absence of direct supplier relationships.

Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – Management approach
See G4-58, page 24.

G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance
mechanisms
In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for
the year 2017.

52 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Social Performance Indicators
Labour Practices and Decent Work
Aspect: Employment – Management approach
Challenges
The RWE Group has carried out a historic reorganisation of the
company with the realignment of the Group and the spin-off
of innogy SE. That exerts substantial impacts on employees.
The growing business pressure being exerted on the RWE
Group and the changes occurring in the energy market also
present us with challenges which necessitate a cultural
change at our company. We have therefore launched an
array of different programmes in order to make this trans­
formation a tangible reality. We are joining forces with our
employees to structure our working culture. This is intended
to ensure that we remain competitive and attractive.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Socially acceptable and responsible restructuring
Our iSWITCH GmbH has already been established in the
Group. This platform promotes and supports many colleagues
in relaunching their careers with an internal group-wide job
market. Secondments of employees from the iSWITCH Force
enable us to cover temporary personnel bottlenecks. This
unit was established so that internal resources could be
used instead of external agency staff on a temporary basis.
iSWITCH also offers targeted career development and helps
staff to achieve further qualifications. It also assists them
in taking advantage of short-term (project) activities and
accompanying staff on observations in different divisions
of the Group. The framework conditions are defined in
collective bargaining agreements. The offer from iSWITCH
is open to colleagues at RWE AG and innogy SE.
A number of tools are available to measure the success of
the internal job market including the number of internal and
external applicants for each job. We also record the through-

put times within iSWITCH GmbH, the financial result and
utilisation of capacity. After a survey was carried out of the
registered candidates and applicants, a large number of
measures were implemented in relation to many aspects of
the handling and management of applications in order to
further improve the package on offer.
Establishment of new conceptual and working practices
Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of
working within the Group. The programme “New Way of
Working” (NWoW) has been designed to achieve this. We
are defining new standards for our working practices and
promoting the skills of employees. A common working culture is also being developed in the three areas of Operating
Excellence, Universal Process Management and Leadership
and Alignment. Our intention is to use these and other
measures to enhance customer satisfaction and improve the
financial results. Currently some 55 NWoW experts are working in 8 new projects to continue establishing the concept in
RWE AG. Around 5,000 employees are being trained in the
new ways of working. We measure the success of our NWoW
projects particularly by analysing leadership quality and
employee and customer satisfaction.
Defining objectives through the Code of Conduct and RWE
Social Charter
Our Code of Conduct and the RWE Social Charter were
jointly adopted by the European Works Council and the
Executive Board in 2010. They define standards for the relationship with our employees and for dealings between the
employees themselves. The Code of Conduct and Social
Charter are applicable for all employees and they cover the
entire Group.

G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region

2016
Fluctuation rate

%

External hirings

FTE

We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data
on turnover and new appointments because the benefit is
not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We regu-

2015

10.1

11.2

3,062

2,896

larly report on the age structure and the breakdown of
employees by gender.

53 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees
RWE only uses a small proportion of employees from subcontractors to carry out operational functions on a permanent basis. We use them for service and service packages,
and for construction and assembly work. It is not possible
for us to report on the “number of days worked by employees
of subcontractors” because these data are not available.

These data will also not be recorded in the future because
they are outside the standard records used for regular
reporting and are not relevant to us for tax purposes. The
benefit obtained from an additional survey would also be
disproportionate to the expenditure.

EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training
All employees from subcontractors who work on the construction sites of RWE are trained.

Aspect: Labour/Management Relations – Management approach
Challenges
We want to adopt a responsible approach to essential
restructuring measures and implement a socially ethical
plan. We are continually in discussions with the employee
representative bodies in the Group and with the unions.
In Germany, the Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG) covers the situation at RWE. We base our
actions on this legislation.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Cooperation beyond the statutory regulations in an
atmosphere of trust
The Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetzt,
BetrVG) regulates the comprehensive information, consultation and co-determination rights of the Works Council. It
states that the Executive Management and the Works Council should cooperate together in an atmosphere of trust.

RWE has gone beyond these statutory regulations and in
2010 defined its commitment to open and trusting cooperation in the RWE Social Charter adopted by the European
Works Council and the Executive Board. This charter sets out
opportunities for participation in processes of change for
employee and union representative bodies. Apart from the
Group Works Council and the European Works Council, there
are other forms of employee representation across the
Group, at company level and at operational level. Specific
interest groups, such as spokesperson committees, representative bodies for people with disabilities, and youth and
apprentice representations are also included. The framework
of reorganising the Group also encompassed the settlement
of interests dated 13 May 2016. This agreement established
that job cuts would not be made on the basis of operational
conditions.

G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are
specified in collective agreements
We comply with all information disclosure obligations and include employee representatives at an early stage.

54 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management approach
Challenges
Our employees and the employees of our partner companies often carry out their assignments at workplaces that
are subject to special requirements for occupational health
and safety. In particular, these include activities in the area
of opencast mining, in technical areas at our power plants,
and at transmission lines or wind turbines. As an employer,
we take our responsibilities very seriously and minimise the
risks of accidents and health hazards. Alongside retaining
the physical health of our employees, we also have a duty
to look after the mental health of our staff. We believe that
this is a particularly important task for us in times of
change within the company. This is a situation beset by
uncertainties for everyone.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Our objective is for every employee to be healthy and to
remain so. We are committed to using all the available
opportunities to aid the recovery of ill employees as quickly
as possible. We treat employees of subcontractors in the
same way as our own colleagues. Health Management at
RWE adopts a holistic approach and is managed from the
Centre of Expertise (CoE Health).
Organisation of health protection
The responsibility for managing health protection is with
the Company Medical Officer (Head of CoE Health). The
Company Medical Officer is appointed by the Executive
Board. Detailed organisation of health protection has been
defined within the framework of the Workplace Safety Management System. Health protection is part of the integrated
management system of RWE Generation because the
employees of the CoE Health are part of the organisation of
RWE Generation and they have their employment contracts
with the company. The CoE Health manages issues relating
to health protection at RWE. It also develops programmes
and initiates their implementation. The areas of expertise
embedded in the CoE Health are organised in four key functions – industrial medicine, emergency medicine, occupational healthcare management and an occupational social
counselling service. In 2016, occupational healthcare management at RWE was awarded the Corporate Health Award
in the Medical Provision Category.
The key performance indicators relevant for health protection are summarised with cause and effect indicators. The
key causal indicator is provided by the health ratio, which
reflects the days of absence on account of illness, accidents

and rest cures in relation to the scheduled working hours.
On the other hand, the sickness rate is the key effect indicator. It records the days of absence due to illness, not including accidents and without rest cures in relation to the scheduled working hours.
Organisation of occupational safety
RWE has defined the target of ensuring that all the Group
companies have certifiable management systems for occupational safety. 70% are currently certified. The Executive
Board safeguards implementation of legal requirements for
occupational safety and for health protection. It further
ensures compliance with the regulations. The Executive
Board defines appropriate targets and uniform standards in
order to support a continuous improvement of processes.
The structural and workflow organisation of occupational
safety is ensured by accredited management systems and is
based on inclusion of international standards and regulations.
Continuous improvement of occupational health and safety
The occupational safety management systems cover all the
relevant management and business functions including the
definition of targets, structures and processes, rules and
tools relevant to occupational safety and health protection.
The objective is to make the best possible contribution to
achieving the corporate goals. The corresponding processes
related to occupational safety and health protection are systematically analysed and continuously improved using the
Plan Do Check Act cycle. The integrated approach is applied
for all relevant activities that extend across management
systems. These include management reviews, audits, analyses and event notifications.
In 2016, the established Working Group on Subcontractor
Management engaged with new development fields for
occupational health and safety of subcontractors in order to
progress national standards. The Working Group drew on
international H&S expertise. The safety standards were
expanded to all countries where RWE has operations. The
objective is to treat the employees of subcontractors in the
same way as RWE’s own employees. The LTIF rate therefore
also takes account of the number of subcontractor accidents, see G4-LA6, page 55.
In order to achieve the targets defined for illness-related
absence over the medium term, health protection is focused
on the basic measures of Good Management, Healthy Working, Stress Competence, Physical Exercise and Nutrition. It

55 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

In 2015, the Health and Safety Culture project was launched
with the aim of developing the culture of health and safety.
The objective of the project is to develop the culture further
in the direction of a collaborative, coaching-oriented management style. In 2016, more than 658 managers attended
a cultural development workshop where they learnt to apply
the tools relevant to health and workplace safety. The managers received a tool box to provide them with support. It
contained a summary of all the management elements.
When the tools are applied, employees can be coached to
exercise and strengthen their independent responsibility.

also includes structures and processes of occupational
healthcare management. One of the measures developed
has been a modular package for resilience. We want to use
this package to promote the ability of our employees to
overcome crises. The aim is to transform them into the motivators for development by drawing on personal and socially
mediated competences. We apply a number of measures
including the Work Ability Index (WAI) in order to obtain a
more extensive record of employees’ performance and their
ability to carry out their work. This framework provides them
with effective support. The approach is based on the subjective assessments of our employees and indicates the extent
to which employees see themselves as being in a position to
carry out their work at the present time and in the future. By
the end of 2015, a total of some 22,600 questionnaires had
been completed.

The tools we use include the Health & Safety Index which
helps to determine the status and the level of maturity of
the company in relation to its health and safety culture. This
forms an important starting position for ongoing cultural
development.

G4-LA6 Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities,
by region and gender
included in this indicator. In the reporting year 2016, we
succeeded in maintaining the number of occupational accidents at a uniformly good level and achieved an LTIF of 2.1
(2015: 2.2). We intend to reduce this level to 1.8 by 2018.

The key performance indicator we use for occupational safety
is the number of accidents with the loss of at least one day
of work for every one million hours worked (Lost Time Incident Frequency, LTIF). Colleagues at subcontractors are

Accidents and days of absence
in 2016 by segment¹

Total per
1,000 FTE² ³

Number of
occupational
accidents²

Number of
Commuting
accidents4

Number of
Days of absence4

Conventional Power Generation

3.8

112

41

2,913

0

0

0

0

Trading/Gas Midstream
Renewables
Grid and Retail Germany
Retail Netherlands/Belgium
Retail United Kingdom
Grid & Retail Central Eastern and South Eastern
Europe, Turkey
Other
RWE Group

6.4

17

1

39

4.93

146

97

3,638

0

0

0

0

2.26

18

2

281

2.4

35

15

2,027

2.62

15

20

1,528

3.5

343

176

10,426

1	A number of interdisciplinary functions were not yet allocated to a segment on 31 December 2016 (e.g. RWE AG, consulting, gastronomy) and they were
therefore included under “Other” for the reporting year 2016. An integrated presentation will be available for the reporting year 2017.
2	Including employees and subcontractors.
3	F TE = Full Time Equivalent.
4 Only own employees.

Reporting in accordance with this controlling model is carried out on the basis of operational controlling of occupational health and safety in the operating segments. We do
not report by regions. Reporting is implemented analogous
to operational controlling in lines. The special hazard and

stress requirements are therefore taken account of within
the segments and international comparability is ensured.
Data on the type of injuries, the injury rate, the absentee
rate (Lost Day Rate, LDR) and work-related fatalities are surveyed in anonymised form for reasons associated with data

56 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

protection regulations. These data cannot therefore be
reported by gender. Reporting on occupational diseases and
the absentee rate is also not possible for the same reason.
Unfortunately, we have to report a total of seven fatal
occupational accidents in the business year 2016. At the
end of February, four subcontractor employees suffered
fatal accidents at the demolition site of Didcot A when the
boiler house collapsed during the course of demolition work.
Because the stability of the remaining building structures
could not be guaranteed, the bodies of three out of the

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

four fatalities could only be recovered six months later following intensive clearing-up operations. In the middle of
June 2016, one fatal accident occurred in the Grid & Infrastructure Division when an employee of a subcontractor
died during forestry work. At the end of August 2016, one
employee was caught in a wheel loader at the Hambach
opencast mine. At the end of December 2016, an employee
of a subcontractor working at the Mülheim-Kärlich plant was
struck by a building component in the controlling area and
succumbed to head injuries. Analysis teams were immediately deployed to clarify the causes of the accidents.

G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation
Activities of our employees and our subcontractor employees in the area of our power plants and opencast mining
facilities are frequently associated with special requirements
for occupational health and safety. However, we believe that
all hazards can be avoided by taking preventive action and

implementing appropriate protective and safety measures.
We organise training sessions and events in our regions in
order to focus attention on health protection and occupational safety.

Aspect: Training and Education – Management approach
Challenges
We will only be able to continue mastering the future challenges presented in the energy business by having professional and dedicated employees and managers. Our aim is
therefore to continue recruiting talented young people to
work at RWE, promoting our employees, supporting them in
their individual development, and furthering their careers on
the basis of their individual strengths. We believe that it is
important to be perceived as an attractive employer. We continue to give our employees advanced training so that they
are always familiar with the latest technical developments.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Recruitment of new employees
We are an important economic factor in the regions where
we have operations. So as to ensure that we continue to
reinforce this perception of an attractive employer in potential employees, we are proactive in engaging with them.
We inform them about the activities and the opportunities
for employment at RWE. We use a range of different tools to
make contact with prospective employees including our
Online Career Portal and our Applicant Academy where
we advise graduates, school students and people with
career experience. The aim is to help them make a start

on the career ladder in the world of work, or give them advice
on changing jobs. We focus our on-site activities on selected
universities in Germany and abroad, as well as offering
personal interviews.
Women continue to be less inclined than men to take up a
technical career. We are therefore especially committed to
motivating young women to explore technical careers at an
early stage. One example is our engagement with the
nationwide Girls’ Days, which have involved more than 400
participants over many years. These events give school girls
an opportunity to find out about careers in technical and IT
areas by attending workshops and work experience sessions.
We also offer the opportunity to identify the right career
route at Career Orientation Days.
Promotion of training
The RWE Group has a long track record of vocational training.
We focus primarily on the dual vocational training system in
Germany. This involves theoretical instruction being given at
vocational colleges alongside on-the-job training in the company. Overall, we offer training at more than 50 locations for
in excess of 30 apprenticeship vocations in craft, engineering and commercial occupations, and other areas where we

57 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

enable young people to undergo a high-quality vocational
training. We offer training that extends beyond our own specific needs. We also offer twin-track degree courses with
practical, in-service training integrated as part of the package. In addition to carrying out training on its own behalf,
RWE also supports external companies with activities for collaborative training ventures, for example by making training
capacities available in our training workshops and by carrying out training for small companies.
Every year, more than 600 young people start their training
in the RWE Group. This means that they are part of 2,258
apprentices in the Group. 94% of these trainees work at
companies in Germany. If you compare the number of German apprentices with the full-time jobs in Germany, the
apprentice ratio of the RWE Group was 6.1% in Germany in
2016. The collective bargaining agreement for training in
the years 2015 and 2016 defines a fixed number of places
for new apprentices, appointments for an unlimited period
of time and four-year contracts. The regulations relating to

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

new places for apprentices were also filled in 2016 and the
agreed minimum numbers of unlimited appointments and
four-year contracts were significantly exceeded. We regard
that as an index for the quality of our training.
Career training and development
We offer a range of training sessions and courses for developing personal skills and for strengthening personal competences. Support is also provided for acquiring knowledge
and skills which lead to further personal development within
the Group. We help managers to enable their employees to
take advantage of opportunities on a daily basis – opportunities to try out new things, implement projects and collaborate with different people so that they can learn from each
other. We are committed to a culture of lifelong learning and
to facilitating the best possible development of the current
and future skills of our employees. Our approach to basic
and advanced training has been defined in our Learning and
Development Guideline.

G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support continued employability of employees
and assist them in managing career endings
Our employees have access to a broad spectrum of development opportunities. These range from basic IT skills, project
management and English language courses, through specialist topics such as occupational safety and compliance, to
management training sessions and performance management. The HR portal of RWE offers attendance training

courses, web-based learning, videos, e-books, games and
much more. Certificates are issued for training courses in specific areas. By the end of 2016, 58,000 training courses had
been booked through the HR portal. The quality of the training courses was assessed with an average score of 4.2 points
(on a scale of 0 (lowest score) to 5 (highest score).

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – Management approach
Challenges
Deep-seated changes like demographic change, skills shortages, migration, changes in values and the individualisation
of life concepts mean that our society is becoming more and
more diverse. Our objective is to use the diversity of our
workforce at RWE as an opportunity for cultural change. An
open and respectful culture appreciates diversity and this is
advantageous for our company and for our employees.
We are a company operating on the international stage where
employees from different cultural backgrounds work together.
Our stakeholder groups and customers have an international
profile. This is why good cooperation and intercultural communication are important for the success of our company.

As a technological company, increasing the proportion of
women in the company continues to be a challenge. Furthermore, the demographic change is also an important issue
for us. Society is getting older and this entails challenges in
the world of work.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Establishment of Diversity Management in the
organisation
Our commitment to diversity in the company culture is
enshrined in our Social Charter. We make it clear in the charter that we reject any form of discrimination and we require
a working environment free of prejudice. Our diversity management plays a key role here.

58 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

We interpret diversity management as a long-term management function in order to deploy the right competences at
the correct place in the company. The different personalities
and capabilities of each individual are a central focus and
they are regarded as an opportunity to learn from each
other. This gives every employee the opportunity to fully
exploit their potential, irrespective of their age, their gender, their origin, but also independently of their beliefs,
disability and their sexual orientation.

together women in our company who have taken scientific
and engineering degrees. The programme strengthens the
profile of women in professions where they remain underrepresented. It offers them a knowledge exchange platform
and assists them with career development through networking activities. More than 110 women from different
hierarchical levels within the Group take part in the initiative.
A Mentoring Programme is currently being developed for
women in MINT professions.

We engage with age structures and age-appropriate employment in the company, analyse the requirements of different
generations and cooperation in mixed-age working teams.
We also offer packages for knowledge transfer and workshops.

The proportion of women in management positions was
14% for RWE AG without innogy at the end of 2016. It was
around 16% for innogy. The percentage was 25% for the
first management level below the Executive Board of RWE
AG. The ongoing restructuring process means that we will
only be able to quantify the proportion for the second management level in the coming year. We are currently also
working on appropriate targets for the same reason.

RWE provides strategic support for refugees in obtaining
vocational qualifications with internships and our programme “I can do this!” (“Ich pack‘ das!“). They are prepared to take on a vocational training with this entry qualification. Our goal is to be able to mediate training for the
participants over the long term. In 2016, we enabled refugees to have a total of 93 internship places, 30 observation
places, 15 introduction training qualifications and two
apprenticeship places. In three of the cases, a short-term
employment was possible. For information on further
engagement with refugees, see G4-SO1, page 63.
Our Diversity Week is held at the headquarters in Essen
and in many other locations in Germany and abroad. It has
demonstrated just how diverse RWE already is. The week
also highlights how the activities in the various subsidiary
companies contribute to promoting a culture of inclusivity.
Appointing more women to management positions
We provide women with strategic support for entering our
company structure and climbing up the career ladder. Our
objective is to achieve a greater proportion of women in
management positions. With this in mind, we have successfully continued our Executive Mentoring Programme for
women and our training directed towards preparation for
taking up membership of supervisory boards.
Women’s netWork at RWE and innogy brings more than 350
women at 14 locations together. Group-wide communication
on the latest challenges in the energy industry is promoted
at annual conferences and working groups and motivation is
provided to enable women to develop their individual career
paths. We will continue to support them with more initiatives.
This also includes the MINT Women initiative that brings

The number of women on the 20-strong Supervisory Board
of RWE AG is currently 6, of which 3 are drawn from the
employee side. This means that the statutory regulations
have been implemented. During the year under review, no
women were present on the Executive Board of RWE AG,
see G4-38, page 21.
Promotion of inclusiveness
In March 2014, the Executive Board of RWE AG adopted the
RWE Inclusiveness Action Plan for the German Group companies and resolved to roll it out. RWE uses this plan specifically to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in
all activities of the company. The agreed targets will continue to be implemented in the companies of RWE. Their
sustainable impact is demonstrated in the constant employment rate for people with disabilities, in the package of
internship places for young people with disabilities and the
sustainable, barrier-free establishment of workplaces for
people whose ability to take part in the workplace is compromised. Our community and social responsibility towards
people with disabilities is defined across Europe through the
Social Charter and the Charter of Diversity. This commitment
is also implemented in a practical way by campaigns to raise
awareness and strategic measures in personnel development, training, employment, health measures and appropriate workplace design and a barrier-free approach. Employee
representatives also play a role in structuring and monitoring the implementation of inclusion here. The ratio of
employees with disabilities at RWE in Germany was 6.2% in
2016. These means that we have complied with the statutory quota of 5.0%.

59 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Combining career and family
Combining career and family is a top priority at RWE and the
company promotes getting the work-life balance right within
the framework of the individual national circumstances and
the specific opportunities available in the Group companies.
Framework conditions like mobile working and flexible
working hours including management positions, and up to
24 months of unpaid special leave all contribute to making
it easier to combine career and family. There are additional
packages for (prospective) parents including the Lumiland
daycare nurseries located close to the company’s premises.
Employees can now use nursery places in Essen, Dortmund
and Cologne. Parent and child offices are also available

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

and a central mediation centre for childminders, nannies,
emergency mothers and au pairs is also available – even in
situations when private childcare is suddenly not available
at short notice.
The spectrum of services is not simply restricted to childcare
support. It also includes services for the care of relatives.
For example, employees can get advice from an online
portal about subjects like patient instructions and long-term
care insurance, or they can also obtain expert advice at onsite events. We also provide support for our employees in
selectng care services or organising support in the home.

G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender,
age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity
A survey of data on minorities is subject to the individual
national regulatory standards. Differentiation on the basis of
gender and age is not therefore possible. For disclosures on
the composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory

Board see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 182
to 186 and the RWE website. The career profiles of the
Members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
can also be found here.

Gender distribution for the RWE Group

Unit

2016

2015

Share of women in the company

%

27.2

26.8

Share of men in the company

%

72.8

73.2

Share of women in executive positions

%

14.0

15.2

1

1 Includes the top four management levels. From 2016, includes RWE AG, RWE Generation and RWE Supply & Trading; excluding innogy.

Age structure for the RWE Group

Unit

2016

2015

Share <20 years
Share 20 – 24 years

%

1.9

1.9

%

5.1

5.4

Share 25 – 29 years

%

8.5

8.8

Share 30 – 34 years

%

10.8

10.8

Share 35 – 39 years

%

10.7

10.5

Share 40 – 44 years

%

11.3

11.6

Share 45 – 49 years

%

14.8

15.5

Share 50 – 54 years

%

18.3

18.3

Share 55 – 59 years

%

14.4

13.7

Share ≥ 60 years

%

4.3

3.5

60 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management approach
Challenges
Equal pay for women and men is still by no means a matter
of course. In future, the statutory framework will require
more equality of pay for women and men. This is because
companies with a workforce bigger than 200 employees will
have to implement an individual legal right for employees to
receive information about unequal pay. Companies with 500
or more employees will be required to introduce procedures
designed to achieve equal remuneration and to report on
this. Businesses which are covered by a collective agreement
are to be exempt from the right to individual information. In
these businesses, employees should exercise their right to
information through the works councils. This means that
lawmakers are meeting demands coming from society. RWE
welcomes this development and naturally also treats women
and men in the same way on all matters including the issue
of remuneration.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Equal remuneration for women and men
Men and women at RWE are paid the same for equivalent
activities. The compensation is based on the typical activities allocated to the remuneration groups. Gender is not
mentioned at all in our compensation guidelines and is irrelevant for remuneration. The amount of pay is therefore
dependent on qualifications, the activity being carried out
and the experience of the employees.
The employee representatives ensure that equal treatment
is maintained in the sphere of pay as in all other areas. The
assignment to a tariff or salary group is linked to the job profile and is not dependent on gender.

G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category,
by significant locations of operation
RWE pays women the same salary as men when they are in
equivalent positions. The salary is calculated exclusively on
the basis of qualification.

The employee representative bodies also monitor equal
treatment here.

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – Management approach
See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30.

G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria	
The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a
constituent element of contractual relationships. Additionally,
the suitability of suppliers is evaluated during the course of
pre-qualification on the basis of the hazard potential. In such
cases, compliance with the defined criteria can be reviewed in
supplier appraisals and used for future tender processes in

the framework of the internal appraisal system. During the
pre-qualification phase, around 1,000 suppliers were
assessed for their suitability in regard to occupational
safety for procurement procedures involving a hazard potential, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 30.

61 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken
We can only report on the number of audited suppliers for
goods, services and plant components. The audits carried
out in the context of Bettercoal can also be reported,
see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 30. During the year under review 89 suppliers were audited on the subject of labour practices. We

regularly carry out audits of all suppliers to ensure conformity with potential compliance risks, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30. When
procurement is carried out in the wholesale markets, an
appraisal is not possible due to an absence of direct supplier
relationships.

Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – Management approach
See G4-58, page 24.

G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance
mechanisms
In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for
the year 2017.

62 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Human Rights
Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Human Rights – Management approach
Challenges
See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 30.
National action plans are in place internationally for business and human rights or such plans are being prepared.
The aim is to implement the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights by the United Nations. In
December 2016, a “National Action Plan for Business and
Human Rights” was adopted in the German Federal Cabinet.
This states that German companies with production facili-

ties abroad and along their supply chain should comply
with human rights. The Modern Slavery Act in the United
Kingdom requires large companies to disclose their commitment to preventing modern slave labour being used by their
suppliers. This legislation has been on the statute book
since March 2015.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 30.

G4-HR10 Prozentsatz G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 
Depending on the concrete product or the concrete service
and the country of production or service provision, a top priority for RWE is compliance with appropriate working conditions and respectful relations with the surrounding community. The Global Compact should be observed in business
relationships with suppliers and it should also be communicated to other entities as far as possible.

We can only report on the number of suppliers for goods,
services and plant components audited for human rights
and on the audits carried out in conjunction with Bettercoal, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management
approach, page 30. In the year under review, all suppliers
were reviewed in relation to the topic of human rights. We
regularly audit all our suppliers for compliance with potential
compliance risks. When procurement is carried out in wholesale markets, appraisal is not possible due to an absence of
direct supplier relationships, see Aspect: Procurement
Practices – management approach, page 30.

G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
See Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain in Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 31.

Aspect: Local Communities – Management approach
See G4-58, page 24.

G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through
formal grievance mechanisms
In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes relating to data acquisition. We will
provide appropriate details for the year 2017.

63 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Society
Aspect: Local Communities – Management approach
Challenges
Wherever we have operations, our actions exert an impact
on local communities. Our power plants and opencast mines
offer jobs and therefore support the structure of the individual regions. In some places, this has already been happening for a long time. We take over very large areas of land on
a temporary basis for our opencast mines. They change the
profile of the landscape. Employee, supplier and customer
traffic also exerts an impact on the neighbourhood. In some
cases, these operations may necessitate resettlements of
individual villages or parts of local settlements.
We want to operate in a socially ethical way at our operating
locations and be perceived in a positive light. With this in
mind, we enter into dialogue with neighbouring residents

and other groups which are impacted by our business operations or whose activities exert an impact on the business
activities of RWE. Wherever we have operations, we want to
cooperate with the local communities where we are located.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Dialogue with neighbouring residents and other
stakeholders impacted
We engage in a lot of different stakeholder dialogues to
communicate information and to involve neighbouring residents and other groups who are affected by our business
activities. This is primarily related to our opencast mines and
our power plants. For more information on integrating our
stakeholders see G4-26 and G4-27, page 17.

G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development
programmes
At all our major locations, we exchange views with the people living in the region. We regularly analyse the needs of
communities and the impacts on the environment within the
framework of the licensing procedure in Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments. A detailed disclosure of the
results is not practicable owing to the large number of
licensing procedures.
Companius cooperates with its long-standing collaboration partners to develop volunteering projects in order to
deliver aid to refugees. Employees throughout the entire

Group, from apprentices to the executive management, take
part in team and individual projects to help refugees. In
2016, a total of 239 members of staff gave a helping hand.
Our aim with the programme 3malE Education with
Energy, is to motivate young people for topics related to
energy and engineering. We also discuss the energy supply
of the future with them. In 2016, 600 experiment kits were
loaned to 75 schools and 70 nurseries, 14,000 teaching
packs were sent to teachers, and 60 members of staff went
into schools as energy ambassadors.

G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities
The operation of opencast mines is unavoidably associated
with interventions in the landscape and with the resettlement of local communities. RWE is very much aware of the
impacts of these interventions for the region.
The important issues associated with resettlement are not
simply about fair compensation for the material assets of
the people being resettled. Intangible assets like tradition,
community and a sense of belonging also play a key role.
So that these needs can be met as far as possible, RWE has
been committed for decades to the offer of community
resettlement with the aim of finding solutions that are ethical and socially compatible. The people being resettled are

involved on many levels in the process from the planning
stage to implementation. They receive comprehensive support through the relevant government agencies, local
authorities, and most importantly from our company. Their
requirements also play a central role within the framework of
the required licensing procedure. They are involved in selecting the location of the resettlement site and they play a key
role in designing the new village. This ensures that the
majority of the people being resettled always play a role in
the resettlement of the community. Vibrant new settlements
can be created in accordance with the ideas of the citizens.
They can be provided with appropriate infrastructure where

64 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

community life can be continued with familiar social structures and similar cultural life. Successful resettlements are
not possible in the absence of social compatibility.
Extraction of lignite inevitably leads to a temporary impact
on the landscape. However, a key attribute for lignite opencast mining in the Rhineland is that reinstatement of the
original use is a constituent element of the operating process. Recultivation is therefore part of opencast operations
throughout the entire lifecycle. It takes account of the environmental requirements and the leisure and recreational

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

needs of the local community. Today, forested areas more
than 80 years old can be found in recultivated former opencast mining districts, for example in Ville. Moreover, water
meadows have recently been created along with areas of
fertile agricultural land. A prerequisite for this activity is a
careful approach to the valuable loess topsoil that defines
the region. Rare animals quickly colonise the reinstated,
contiguous landscapes within a very short space of time.
Reports from specialist advisors indicate that the recultivated mining areas have an environmental value at least
equivalent to that of the original landscapes.

EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project
The resettlements necessary in the Rhineland lignite mining
area used to extract lignite using opencast processes are
carried out in accordance with the proven concept of joint
resettlement, see G4-SO2, page 63. The village community is resettled together over a specified period so that the
social structures and cultural life can be preserved. The process of compensation ensures that owners from the previous

locality are able to build a comparative equivalent property
within the new locality. Since the 1940s, more than 40,000
residents have been resettled in a socially acceptable way.
So far, 35 new and vibrant localities have been created in
this process. In 2016, around 60 properties were acquired in
five localities alongside additional agricultural and other parcels of land.

Aspect: Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response – Management approach
Challenges
As the biggest power producer in Germany, RWE provides a
service in the form of electricity. If power were not available,
a modern industrial and service society would not be conceivable in its present form. We are therefore a constituent
element of the basic services known as critical infrastructure. This includes “organisations, institutions and facilities
with important consequences for the governmental apparatus. If an electricity outage occurs or supply bottlenecks
impact negatively over an extended period of time, public
security would be subject to substantial disruption or dramatic consequences would be entailed,” according to the
government’s definition. We are aware of our macroeconomic responsibility to society as a whole. Security management is therefore a central management function at RWE. A
major incident can lead to complete supply outages, pose a
threat to health and life in power plants and the surrounding
area. Such an incident can also constitute a threat to the
economic future of the company. This means that it is necessary to adopt appropriate planning measures and implement
relevant training programmes in order to cater for a broad
spectrum of potential incidents – including incidents with a
low probability of occurrence but entailing substantial
impacts. Prevention of incidents like this is the primary goal.

Organisation, management and performance measurement
Avoiding crises and preparing prevention plans
Group Security reports directly to the Executive Board of
RWE AG. As part of its governance function, RWE defines
group-wide regulations for security. Business Continuity
Management (BCM) and crisis management are a constituent element of this governance. An integrated approach also
entails establishment of governance for information security
and IT security governance within Group Security.
Integrated crisis organisation has been established for meeting the challenge of crisis situations. The organisation comprises central and local crisis staffs that introduce countermeasures depending on the individual incident. These crisis
staffs are supported by crisis management plans. Starting
with the Executive Board, exercises are carried out by the
crisis staffs to deal with different scenarios. These exercises
are intended to train members of staff and to review the
approaches used. In 2016, the focus of the exercises was on
cyber security.
Processes critical for our business are identified in Business
Impact Analyses and appropriate measures are taken. BCM
plans are developed on the basis of these analyses. They

65 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

minimise the impacts of outages and provide effective reinstatement. These BCM plants are reviewed for their effectiveness every year.
Strengthening cooperation with government authorities
Reporting pathways to the government agencies involved
are defined in legislation for an operator of critical infrastructure. However, the commitment of the Group extends
beyond these statutory requirements. RWE is a member of
the German Cyber Security Council (Cyber-Sicherheitsrat
Deutschland e.V.), the Allianz for Cyber Security (Allianz für
Cybersicherheit) of the Federal Ministry for Security in Infor-

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

mation Technology (BSI) and UP KRITIS of the BSI. The latter
is the initiative for cooperation between business and the
state to protect critical infrastructures in Germany. On the
international scene, RWE is one of the few German groups
which is a member of the National Cyber Forensics & Training Alliance NCFTA) in the USA. We work together with government agencies to make preparations for the scenarios
entailed in an emergency. Exercises simulating emergencies
are carried out at local level and these generally take place
in cooperation with the authorities operating on the ground
there, for example the police and fire service.

Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management approach
Challenges
Compliance with the law and legislation is a duty and part of
the corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches of the law mean
that the company can suffer major and serious reputational
damage. RWE therefore bases all its activities and business
decisions on established internal rules for compliance. The
company does not tolerate any corruption or other breaches
of the regulations. Compliance requirements are also factored in when making decisions about entering into business relationships with suppliers or business partners. The
energy industry is a sector defined by regulatory decisions,
continuous change and projects with high order volumes.
This also impacts to a greater or lesser extent on the value
chain of RWE. RWE AG has therefore implemented comprehensive systems for avoidance of corruption within the
framework of compliance management. For information on
innogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in
Aspect: Anti-corruption, page 87.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Prevention of corruption is a particularly important topic for
the Compliance Management System. Our prevention strategy relies on raising the awareness of our employees and
managers within the company.

Monitoring of compliance management systems at RWE AG,
RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH in
order to prevent corruption is carried out by the Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG. innogy SE also has a Compliance
Management System and has its own Chief Compliance
Officer. The compliance officers inside and outside Germany
ensure uniform implementation of compliance principles for
prevention of corruption at RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and
RWE Supply & Trading GmbH.
The RWE Code of Conduct forms the platform for our
interpretation of compliance. The code prohibits any form of
corruption and it is binding on all our employees. The Code
of Conduct is given concrete form by other Group guidelines. Organisational regulations such as the double-checking (four-eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisation concept and licensing regulations provide support for
compliance with the guidelines.
The Chief Compliance Officer regularly reports to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee on issues
relevant to compliance.
For performance measurement
page 66.

see G4-SO3 and G4-SO4,

G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks
identified
The identification and assessment of compliance risks takes
place in a two-stage process. This process was launched in
2012 with the central determination of the risk profiles for
the Group companies. A second step focused on working
out detailed corruption risk scenarios. These were discussed

and developed within the framework of risk workshops in
the individual Group companies. The compliance officers
carried out this detailed analysis across the Group and in
2016 the results generated from the Group perspective were
aggregated centrally.

66 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

We do not explicitly report on the established risks, since
these values are subject to specific confidentiality con-

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

straints. They are confidential as it is business-relevant
information.

G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures
Internal media within the Group inform our employees about
behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and
also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached.
Members of the workforce are able to take part in a wide
range of training offerings through a web-based training
programme and at attendance events. Participation is obligatory and calibrated according to the risk of corruption associated with the relevant activity. The Executive Board is also
integrated in this training concept. We have developed our
training concept further taking risk aspects into account and

we started a new training cycle in 2016. This year we were
able to deliver training at face-to-face events in this cycle to
around 4,900 employees in Germany and around 320
employees in other regions where RWE operates.
We do not explicitly report data broken down into employee
category since these values are subject to specific confidentiality constraints. They are confidential as it is business-relevant information.

Aspect: Public Policy – Management approach
Challenges
RWE is an operator of power plants with potentially serious
impacts on the environment and the community. We also
operate a critical infrastructure and we are a major company
with significant economic importance. This entails a duty to
ensure compliance with standards under statutory legislation.
We also have an obligation to participate in dialogue at the
political and community levels. Communication with our
stakeholders provides us with helpful ideas for aligning our
entrepreneurial activities. Particularly at the present time
when the company is undergoing change, it is important to
discuss expectations and assessments for the future of the
energy supply with external stakeholders. At the same time,
dialogue gives us the opportunity to provide better communication of corporate decisions and the underlying motives. We
have an obligation to provide answers for our stakeholders
and we want to be a partner in the discussion on an equal
level. This enables us to meet the expectations placed on us
by society, see G4-24 to G4-27, page 17.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Objectives for transparency in political dialogue
Our conduct in relation to politicians is clearly regulated in
the Code of Conduct. We state there that dialogue with representatives of government institutions and political parties
is indispensable as far as we are concerned. In these contexts, we want to avoid giving the appearance of exerting
undue influence. We have therefore made a commitment to
neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not make

any donations to political organisations, or organisations
and foundations which are closely related to political
parties.
Since 2010, we have been entered in the Transparency Register of the European Union. We publish a number of disclosures there including the costs for our liaison office in Brussels which amounted to € 2 million during the period under
review. We would welcome establishment of a Transparency
Register in Berlin based on the Brussels model. We have
already disclosed voluntarily information about our budget,
the number of employees and other information to organisations such as Lobby Control. We have a public profile
through our liaison offices in Brussels and Berlin, not least
through information events such as the RWE Talks.
Engaging in dialogue and keeping up a conversation
In 2016, the main themes in discussions with politicians in
Germany and at EU level related to the energy transition,
national and international climate protection policy, the
future of coal and further development of energy markets.
This dialogue was supplemented by the debate about the
recommendation by the “Commission for Reviewing the
Finance of Exit from Nuclear Energy” (KFK). We also contributed our specialist knowledge in the area of IT security.
In the Netherlands, we engaged in discussions about the
policy of human rights in the hard-coal supply chain, implementation of the national energy agreement and the role of
co-incineration of biomass as a contribution to the Dutch
CO2 reduction strategy, see G4-24 to G4-27, page 17.

67 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Supporting initiatives
As a major energy utility we support political initiatives at
federal level. At present, RWE Group Security currently provides the spokesperson for the energy sector in UP KRITIS –
a national initiative between the state and business to protect critical infrastructure in Germany – run by the Federal
Ministry for Security in Information Technology (BSI).
The Initiative Future Association (Initiative Zukunft) intends
to use the Long Night of Industry (Lange Nacht der Industrie) to raise awareness within the local population about
the importance of an industrial location for the future of the
region. This is why RWE also participated in the venture by
opening up its operational sites and allowing citizens to
experience industrial production at first hand.

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Furthermore, we also participate in the Innovation Forum
Energy Transition If.E (Innovationsforum Energiewende If.E)
run by the IGBCE – union for the mining, chemicals and
energy industry. The delegates use this forum to work out
the economic, technical and regulatory contributions for
restructuring the energy supply in Germany. In 2016, If.E
held a large innovation conference and a works council conference with our support. Large-scale advertisements were
also placed in national newspapers which highlighted the
need for more extensive expansion of storage facilities and
grids as a necessary cornerstone of the energy transition.
We supported this campaign with whole-page advertisements in our neighbourhood magazines. These are circulated to households in the Rhineland lignite mining area and
in the districts surrounding nuclear power stations.

G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 
RWE has made a commitment to neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not make any donations to political
organisations, or organisations or foundations which are closely related to political parties.

Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour – Management approach
Challenges
It is important for our company to be perceived as trustworthy and transparent. We earn this trust through fair conduct.
RWE also keeps within the law and complies with legislation
in competitive situations. Our efforts are directed towards
ensuring that all our business activities are in accordance
with the conditions of fair competition at all times. We also
observe anti-trust regulations and statutory requirements for
unbundling. Our operations are based on these rules. In this
way, we therefore meet our responsibility as a major player
in the economy.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
In order to prevent anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, we
raise the awareness of all employees and management to

this issue at attendance events. Our employees receive
training sessions on the requirements for conforming with
behaviour in accordance with competition legislation. The
Executive Board is integrated in this training concept. We
implement neutral grid operation and this ensures billing
and legal separation of grid usage from power generation,
trade and supply so that we comply with the unbundling
regulations. Group Auditing carries out preventive audits in
the Group companies with the aim of checking implementation of our regulations on anti-competitive behaviour. We
take any reports of potential breaches very seriously, we
investigate them and we take any measures necessary where
appropriate.

G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their
outcomes
In 2016, RWE AG was subject to a proceeding in connection
with the running down of a joint-venture power plant, which
was brought to a conclusion without any sanctions in 2016.

For information on the proceeding against companies in the
innogy Group see G4-SO7 in the innogy Sustainability
Report 2016, page 91.

68 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Compliance – Management approach
Challenges
Integrity, honesty, acting in accordance with the law and
respect for our fellow human beings and the environment
form the basis of our entrepreneurial activity. We are subject
to laws, regulations and comparable rules and procedures.
These underlying conditions and the RWE Code of Conduct form the framework for our operations. Any breaches
entail significant financial and reputational risks for RWE.
Individual employees may also be personally liable. A top
priority for our employees and subcontractors is that their
conduct and actions should be in accordance with the law
and ethical principles. We have defined the principles for
conduct in the binding RWE Code of Conduct.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
The principles of general compliance and the Compliance
Management System are defined by the Chief Compliance
Officer of RWE AG for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE
Supply & Trading GmbH. An independent Chief Compliance
Officer has been appointed for innogy SE. This officer is
responsible for the Compliance Management System at
innogy SE. The Compliance Management System set up to
combat any corruption at RWE AG and audited in accordance
with the IDW 980 Standard was adopted without amendments by innogy SE and is being continued there. For more
information on the Compliance Management System of
innogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in
Aspect: Compliance – management approach, page 91.
The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG is supported in
complying with his functions and responsibilities at the level
of RWE AG by Compliance Managers and at the local level by
the Compliance Officers of the individual RWE companies. In
terms of the content, the focus of activity is on prevention
of corruption. Alongside this function, measures for export
control compliance and prevention of money laundering are
developed further and implemented.
The compliance function at RWE AG has taken on a coordinating and consolidating role for other compliance areas

defined for RWE such as competition and anti-trust law,
company and capital market law, employment law and environmental protection, occupational health and safety, and
data protection. The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG
bundles these compliance areas within integrated compliance reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG. However, responsibility for operational
content always remains with the functions bearing individual
responsibility for areas such as legal affairs, employment law
and Group data protection. The RWE Legal Department for
RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply & Trading
GmbH therefore provides legal advice on company law and
investment administration, and on joint ventures, M&A
transactions and project finance. The Legal Department is
also responsible for basic issues relating to energy law,
merger monitoring, competition and trademark law, procurement, property and IT legislation. All the experts in employment law from the affiliated national companies are in turn
bundled in the RWE Group within the employment law function. It is responsible for issues under personal and collective legislation. This function also organises the engagement of external consultants for all the companies relating
to issues of employment law and any associated matters.
In order to bundle competence and enhance efficiency, the
Group Data Protection Officer also acts as a company Data
Protection Officer for the German RWE companies. The Data
Protection Officer is supported by a team of data protection
specialists who in turn independently look after data protection in the individual companies. Protection of personal data
is extremely important to RWE. Our objective is to protect
personal data against misuse and thereby sustainably reinforce the trust of employees and customers over the long
term. Group Data Protection develops and maintains the
Data Protection Management System and ensures uniform
interpretation of data protection at RWE. It also provides
appropriate management for data protection events. The
Group Data Protection Officer reports regularly on data protection issues to the Executive Board.

G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws
and regulations
Our group-wide survey on the prevention of corruption revealed that no fines were incurred in this area.

69 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management approach
See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30.

G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society
We can only report on the number of audited suppliers for
goods, services and plant components who were screened
with respect to their impacts on society. The audits carried
out in the context of Bettercoal can also be reported,
see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management

approach, page 30. During the business year 2016, 250
suppliers (2015: 285) were screened on the subject of their
impacts on society. We regularly carry out audits of all suppliers to monitor exposure to potential compliance risks.

G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken
The RWE Purchasing Department does not maintain any
business relationships with suppliers if there is information
in the public domain indicating that they breach the principles underlying the Global Compact. RWE is committed to
implementation of the Global Compact.
Information “in the public domain” relates to all generally
accessible sources from which information can be obtained.
Press reports containing merely the suspicion of a breach
are not sufficient in this case. Rather, we rely on legally

admissible or officially confirmed facts. Furthermore, we
use published negative lists (World Bank Listing of Ineligible
Firms and Non-Responsible Vendors) drawn up by the World
Bank based in Washington/USA. When suppliers are in contention for being included on the list of RWE’s suppliers, the
background check is carried out by the relevant purchaser
before any orders are awarded. In the case of existing suppliers, the review is performed centrally in the vendor
accounts section.

Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – Management approach
See G4-58, page 24.

G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance
mechanisms
In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for
the year 2017.

70 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Product Responsibility
Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – Management approach
Challenges
More than 23 million customers trust us to supply them with
electricity, gas and heat at any time. A comprehensive and
varied spectrum of statutory regulations governs labelling
of these products. Such regimes are in force in the various
countries in which we supply customers. Particularly detailed
regulations on the labelling of electricity are on the statute
book in Germany. Additionally, our customers are increasingly interested in being informed about the composition of
our electricity supplies.
Organisation, management and performance measurement
Transparent product labelling
All electricity bills issued by RWE and innogy throughout
Europe include disclosures on the energy mix, the CO2 emis-

sions and radioactive waste in accordance with EU Directive
2003/54/EC and in accordance with Article 42 of the German Energy Industry Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz, EnWG).
Furthermore, the data are also published on the Internet
pages of RWE Supply & Trading, for innogy corporate
customers and for innogy residential customers. Our
intention here is not simply to implement the statutory regulations but also to consistently apply the guidelines published by the German Association of Energy and Water
Industries (BDEW). These are regarded as the industry gold
standard. All our customers are therefore provided with
comprehensive and transparent information about the
energy mix of the relevant product and the associated environmental impacts.

G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service
information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information
requirements
Electricity labelling is an instrument for increasing market
transparency in the electricity market. Pursuant to the requirements of the German Energy Industry Act (Energiewirtschafts­
gesetz), all suppliers of electricity to consumers must provide
their customers with information on the energy mix underly-

ing the individual products and on the CO2 emissions and
nuclear wastes that arise in the generation process. All electricity and gas bills of RWE and innogy are in accordance with
the statutory labelling requirements.

G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in
new products and to recommend our company to other people. Our stated objective is to be accepted by them as a service provider and supplier, and also as a partner who can
work with them to create individual solutions. Our usual
high level of product quality, fast and streamlined processes, and competitive prices continue to remain our top
priorities in this relationship.

The Commodity Solutions section at RWE Supply & Trading
has set up a regular customer survey process within this
framework and it uses a Customer Satisfaction Index for
management.
innogy also regularly measures customer loyalty and customer satisfaction. For information on this see the innogy
Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Product and Service
Labelling – management approach, page 93.

71 Our Responsibility 2016

Appendix

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

72 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Assurance Report
Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report

To RWE AG, Essen
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell­
schaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on
the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report
and issued an independent assurance report, authoritative
in German language, which has been translated as follows:
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance
engagement on the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate Responsibility Report of RWE AG (hereafter the “Company”) for the period 1 January 2016 to 31
December 2016 (hereafter the “Corporate Responsibility
Report”).
Management’s Responsibility
The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Responsibility Report
in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of
the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of
appropriate methods to prepare the Corporate Responsibility Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates
for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable
in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility
includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems
and processes relevant for the preparation of the Corporate
Responsibility Report, which is free of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.
Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions
regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and
professional standards – in particular the Professional Code
for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors
(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der Wirtschaft-

sprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”):
Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf
eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 „Anforderungen
an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”
(IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive
system of quality control including documented policies and
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements,
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.
Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate Responsibility Report based on our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an
audit on external sources of information or expert opinions,
referred to in the Corporate Responsibility Report, as well as
references to other chapters, indicators, and the annual
report, if they are not separately marked as reviewed.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This
Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance
engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that
the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate Responsibility Report has not been prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering
procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance
engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is
obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The
procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material
misstatements of the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate Responsibility Report with regard to the
GRI-Criteria.

73 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others
the following procedures:
QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sus-

tainability organization and of the stakeholder engagement

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the
Company's sustainability management and sustainability
reporting:
QQ Further development and formalization of innogy-spe-

QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the

Corporate Responsibility Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal control system and
selected sustainability information
QQ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability informa-

tion of the Corporate Responsibility Report
QQ Comparison of selected sustainability information with

corresponding data in respective evidence documents
QQ Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainabil-

ity information in the Corporate Responsibility Report
regarding the sustainability performance
Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has
come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate
Responsibility Report of the Company for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

cific reporting processes and the respective internal control system as well as increasing implementation of automated system interfaces and controls
Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed
with the Company. The review has been performed for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform the
Company about the results of the review. The report is not
intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision
thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third
parties.
Essen, 24 March 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Michael Conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch

74 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Important Sustainability Indicators
Indicators
Unit

2016

2015

Environment1
Specific NOX emissions

g/kWh

0.47

0.54

Specific SO2 emissions

g/kWh

0.18

0.25

Specific particulate matter emissions

g/kWh

0.012

0.017

Ash

thousand mt

8,201

8,495

Gypsum

thousand mt

2,042

2,172

Primary energy consumption

million GJ

1,478

1,467

Water consumption²

m³/MWh

1.62

1.39

CO2 emissions EU ETS

million mt

148.3

150.8

CO2 emissions Scope 14

million mt

154.0

152.3

5

CO2 emissions Scope 2

million mt

1.3

1.3

CO2 emissions Scope 36

million mt

86.5

93.9

Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS

mt/MWh

0.686

0.708

Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1

mt/MWh

0.713

0.715

Capital expenditure of the Renewables Division

€ million

7

242

418

Share of the Group’s power generation accounted for by renewable energies

%

5.1

5.3

R&D costs

€ million

165

101

58,652

59,762

10.1

11.2

3.8

3.8

95.1

95.1

2.1

2.2

7

4

3

8

Society
Workforce9

FTE

Fluctuation rate

%

Training days per employee (Germany)
Health ratio

%

Work-related and commuting accidents

LTIF10

Fatal work-related accidents

11

Governance
Share of women in the company

%

27.2

26.8

Share of women in executive positions12

%

14.0

15.2

Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high or very high risk of corruption13

%

10.2

10.5

1 All plants are included where RWE is the operator of the plant.
2	Difference between the water consumption of the power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters up to 2015, excluding power plants with seawater cooling,
including cooling-tower losses.
3	Plants which fall under the scope of the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) including power plants which are not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion
on the basis of long-term agreements.
4	Scope 1: EU ETS amounts plus the emissions from plants which do not fall under the scope of EU ETS.
5	Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties in our own grids.
6	Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under scope 1 and scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and
distribution of electricity in third-party networks, the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers.
7	In accordance with the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 4.
8	In accordance with the RWE Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 23.
9 Converted to full-time positions.
10	Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all accidents resulting in at least one day of absence for every 1 million hours worked); Figures for 2012 incl. reports known to us from
third-party companies (subcontractors).
11	Including employees of partner companies (subcontractors).
12	Encompasses the top four management levels; from 2016, only RWE AG, RWE Generation, RWE S&T.
13	Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption.

75 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

UN Global Compact Progress Report 2016
RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants
to make a contribution with the worldwide implementation
of its ten principles. These have been adopted word for word
in the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies

the guidelines, programmes and management systems which
we have also introduced with our sphere of influence. The
table also highlights the measures that have been taken during the period under review and the specific results obtained.

Principle

Systems

Measures

Results

Principle 1: Support of human rights

Social Charter and minimum standards
for restructuring operations carried out
for the European companies in the RWE
Group, covering 99.7% of the workforce.

Restructuring with social compensation
by working together with employee representatives and unions (p. 53)

Compliance with principles 1 – 5 assured
through national legislation in Europe,
cooperation with the unions, and RWE’s
own principles which apply to all employees of the company

ILO core standards are defined for the
Social Charter

Co-founder of Bettercoal, auditing of
coal mines, application of information
for “Counterparty Risk Assessment”
(p. 30 f.)

Principle 2: Elimination of human
rights violations
Principle 3: Ensuring freedom of
association

Supplier management (p. 30 ff.)

Assessment and audit of suppliers
(p. 30 ff., 51, 60 ff., 69)

Principle 4: A
 bolition of all forms of
forced labour

Pay and social benefits above the
national average
26 comprehensive self-assessments and
the results of 6 on-site audits available
through Bettercoal (p. 31)

Principle 5: Abolition of child labour

Principle 6: Elimination of
discrimination

Diversity management (p. 57 f.)
Group-wide women’s network (p. 58)

Diversity Week demonstrated activities
to promote an culture of inclusivity
(p. 58)
MINT Women Initiative (p. 58)

Principle 7: Precautionary
environmental protection

Environmental management (p. 39)
Strategy for reducing the CO2 emission
factor (p. 37, 44 f.)

Annual audit for setting up environmental management systems in conformity
with ISO 14001 (p. 39)

Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk management (p. 28, 44)

Adoption of a group-wide Biodiversity
Guideline since 2015 (p. 41)

Percentage of women in management
positions increased to 14% (p. 58)
Percentage of people with severe
disabilities with 6.2% in Germany
virtually constant
Coverage level of environmental management in relation to the Group: 100%,
89% of this was certified externally
(p. 39)
Level of coverage with certified Energy
Management Systems: 69% (p. 39)
Reduction in specific CO2 emissions by
more than 3% (p. 46)
Reduction in specific emissions of the air
pollutants NOX by more than 12% and
SO2 by more than 28% (p. 46)

Principle 8: Initiatives to promote
greater environmental
responsibility

Consultancy and services for intelligent
use of energy with residential and commercial customers (p. 34)
Initiative for energy education 3malE
(p. 29, 63)

Principle 9: D
 evelopment and diffusion
of environmental friendly
technologies

Principle 10: Anti-corruption measures

Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission
factor (p. 37, 44 f.)

Research on use of lignite as a material
(p. 35)

Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk management (p. 28, 44)
Research and Development (p. 34 f.)

Research on enhancing the flexibility
and efficiency of conventional power
plants (p. 35)

RWE Code of Conduct and Group guidelines for prevention of corruption and
organisation regulations (p. 65, 68)

Drawing up detailed corruption risk
scenarios with other consolidated
companies (p. 65)

Audited Compliance Management System for anti-corruption in accordance
with the IDW Audit Standard promulgated by the Institute of German Public
Auditors (p. 68)

Training of the workforce with an
Intranet-based training programme and
on-site training (p. 66)

Product range for marketing of flexibilities (p. 34)
Energy education packages for children
and teenagers (p. 63)
Modernisation of the power plant
portfolio (p. 37, 44 f.)

Compliance training sessions for around
4.900 employees in Germany and around
320 employees in other regions where
RWE operates, in on-site events (p. 66)

76 Our Responsibility 2016

About the Report

Content

Contact and imprint
Publisher
RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Opernplatz 1
45128 Essen
Germany
Contact person
Alexander Nolden
Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility
45128 Essen
Germany
Phone +49 201 12-00
EMail
responsibility@rwe.com
Dr.-Ing. Marita Hilgenstock
Politicial Affairs, Corporate Responsibility
Phone +49 201 12-15302
EMail
marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com
Editorial deadline
24 March 2017
The Report is available in English and German;
both versions can also be accessed via the Internet
for download at www.rwe.com.
Concept, text, design and implementation in
cooperation with
akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich
www.akzente.de
Translation
Tristam Carrington-Windo

General Standard Disclosures

Specific Standard Disclosures

Appendix

Stay in Dialogue.
responsibility@rwe.com

RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Opernplatz 1
45128 Essen
Germany
www.rwe.com

