Our Responsibility. Report 2015

SECURING THE FUTURE.

Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Content

CONTENT
In conversation with Peter Terium

01

CR strategy and management

23

Our Company

03

Compliance and risk management

26

Important sustainability indicators

04

Stakeholder dialogue

29

Our value chain

05

Materiality Analysis

35

Developments in our regions
12
Our regions 
14
Germany 
15
United Kingdom 
17
Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg 19
Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe
and Turkey 
21
Western and Southern Europe 
22
Other countries 
22

GRI

Overview of our ten areas for action
and our CR objectives
39
Climate Protection
41
Energy Efficiency
47
Environmental Protection and
Biodiversity50
Community Engagement
54
Market and Customers
59
Employees65
Supply Chain
69
Occupational Safety and
Healthcare Management
75
Security of Supply
79
Innovation83

General and Specific Standard Disclosures according to GRI G4

About this Report
Report profile
Assurance Report
GRI G4 Content Index - Summary
UN Global Compact
Progress Report 2015
Explanations of the indicators
Contact and imprint

Other details are on the Internet

89
89
91
94
97
99
101

Details have been audited externally

01 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

In conversation with Peter Terium



Content

IN CONVERSATION WITH PETER TERIUM Chief Executive Officer of RWE AG

Peter Terium, CEO of RWE AG

Mr Terium, in December 2015 you announced a strategic realignment
of the RWE Group. What exactly are you intending to do?
TERIUM: We are bundling renewable energies, grids and distribution
in a new company and taking it to the stock exchange. This will give
us a platform for growth with direct access to the capital market. We
are planning to increase the capital for the new company by the end
of 2016 through the issue of new shares by around 10%. The new
money is going to finance further growth in future markets. RWE AG
will remain a majority shareholder in the new company over the long
term and also concentrate on conventional electricity generation and
energy trading.

Is it the case that in future there will be a sustainable and a
non-sustainable RWE?
TERIUM: That would be too simple. In future, both of these companies will be needed to provide a sustainable energy supply. Conventional power plants will continue to be indispensable for security of
supply. They have to generate electricity when renewable energies
are not available. Both parts of RWE are also an important factor for
the regional economy as an employer and purchaser. We take social
responsibility at our locations. All RWE companies remain committed
to our conceptual understanding of sustainability as it is defined in
the principles of the UN Global Compact.

You have repeatedly highlighted the fact that RWE is not splitting up,
but that everything will be happening under a single Group roof.
Does this mean that it will be business as usual and nothing is going
to change – apart from the fact that new money is flowing into the
coffers?
TERIUM: No, things are certainly not going to continue as before –
irrespective of the structure we move into the future with. Our business framework alone is much too dynamic for this. Both of our
Group segments can now approach their future challenges even
more strategically. Developing and selling digital products, tailoring
distribution grids to match the energy transition and designing
energy concepts for growing metropolises – this is rather different
from operating conventional large-scale power plants and trading in
raw materials.

Aren’t there nevertheless different issues in the individual
companies?
TERIUM: Yes, there are differences. Let’s take climate protection. The
reduction of CO2 emissions from our own power plants remains the
most important function if we are to become more sustainable. This
is no longer an issue for the new company – ultimately we generate
electricity there primarily from wind energy and hydropower. This
leads to other issues. How do we also ensure that our customers and
our suppliers alike improve their individual CO2 footprint too? What
incentives can we apply and which innovative solutions are we able
to offer for this?

„RWE is one of the most important
players in the energy transition“

02 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

The interview was conducted by
Dr Matthias Kussin and
Franziska Klapper,
RWE Corporate Responsibility

In conversation with Peter Terium



Content

What solutions are you thinking of there?
TERIUM: One example: We are currently testing a prototype for a
product called Consenze. This stands for Connected Sensors. Consenze empowers all the production companies to identify the electricity consumption of different plants quickly and to make processes
more efficient. This is achieved by an array of small sensors providing
data from the operating sites. In future, Consenze will even control
the energy consumption of machines and heating systems fully automatically. This saves money and effort at our industrial and commercial customers, as well as helping the climate.

For many years, the focus of RWE was almost exclusively on Europe.
In the meantime, your employees are now also working in other
regions – for example in the Arabian Peninsula. Will RWE be seeking
its fortune in new markets?
TERIUM: Western and Central Europe remains our core area. However,
we are also looking at other countries and regions, such as Turkey,
the Middle East and North Africa, the so-called MENAT region. We
have ambitious targets there for restructuring the energy supply. Our
know-how is in demand in these markets – for the expansion of
renewable energies and for the management of energy systems.

The countries at the Paris Climate Summit in December 2015 set
ambitious targets. How does the climate footprint at RWE look for
the past year?
TERIUM: We are satisfied. All the important indicators in our climate
footprint are pointing in the right direction. In 2015, we produced
more electricity than in 2014. However, we also reduced our CO2
emissions at the same time – both for per generated unit of electricity and in absolute terms. We have carried out a number of measures
in order to achieve this – e.g. with the construction of the two new
offshore wind farms Nordsee Ost and Gwynt y Môr.

How are you going to convince customers in these regions to work
together with RWE?
TERIUM: When we constructed Gwynt y Môr we proved that we have
the capability to roll out major projects. Building the wind farm took
up more than nine million working hours – half of this time was spent
on the water, sometimes under extremely adverse weather conditions.
Is good project management enough of a reason for doing business?
TERIUM: Gwynt y Môr is not just a symbol of good management. The
project has also demonstrated that we have harnessed the complex
technologies necessary for the energy system of the future. RWE is
one of the most important players in the energy transition. We are
developing a new infrastructure for grids, storage facilities and control technologies in order to systematically convert an industrial
country to renewable energies.

03 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our Company



Content

OUR COMPANY
RWE is one of the biggest electricity and gas utilities in Europe. We supply more than 16.4 million customers with electricity
and another 7 million with gas. Around 59,700 employees work at all levels of the supply chain to ensure that all our
customers are satisfied. Alongside electricity and gas, we also supply our customers with products like energy advice,
photovoltaic systems (PV), storage facilities, electromobility solutions and house automation technology.
In Europe, we are ranked by retail business in second place for electricity and in sixth place for gas. In Germany, the Netherlands and
the United Kingdom, we are positioned among the biggest electricity
and gas utilities. In the Czech Republic, we occupy the first place in
the gas business and we also have leading positions in other markets
located in Central Europe. We have electricity and gas distribution
grids with a total length of around 505,000 km in Germany, the
Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. RWE is also working
on innovative solutions in the area of grids and the company is carrying out research into new technologies.

Overview of the key performance indicators for the company in 2015:

€ 48.6 59,762
billion external
revenues

Employees

0.71

metric tons (mt) of
CO2 per MWh of
electricity

9%

share of renewable
energies in power plant
capacity

2.2

LTIF1 occupational
accidents

1 Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per 1 million worked hours (Lost Time Incident Frequency)
incl. reports known to us from partner companies (subcontractors).

At the end of 2015, RWE had power plant capacities totalling
48,052 megawatts (MW). Out of this 32% were attributable to gas
(2014: 32%), 23% to lignite (2014: 23%), 22% to hard coal (2014:
21%), 8% to nuclear energy (2014: 8%) and 9% to renewable energies (2014: 8%). This includes 4,373 MW of capacity generated by
contracted power stations owned by other companies. We are able
to access these capacities freely through long-term contracts.
RWE covers the entire energy value chain. We are involved in the production of lignite, the generation of electricity from gas, lignite and
hard coal, nuclear energy and renewable sources, energy-trading
operations, distribution and supply of electricity and gas, as well as
operating in the supply of energy-related services. As an international group, we have a workforce of full-time employees in 21 countries. In the business year 2015, we generated revenue of around
€ 48.6 billion.

04 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Important sustainability indicators



Content

IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
2015

2014

20131

2012

2011

Environment
NOx emissions2

g/kWh

0.54

0.60

0.68

0.69

0.60

SO2 emissions2

g/kWh

0.25

0.33

0.37

0.40

0.31

g/kWh

0.017

0.020

0.022

0.025

0.021

thousand mt

8,495

8,115

8,308

8,710

7,843

Particulate emissions

2

Ash2
Gypsum

2

Primary energy consumption2
Water consumption2, 3

thousand mt

2,172

2,200

2,192

2,200

2,148

billion kWh

407.4

393.4

409.6

435.7

390.6

m3/MWh

1.40

1.46

1.45

1.56

1.62

CO2 emissions Scope 14, 5

million mt

152.3

156.6

165.8

181.7

163.8

CO2 emissions Scope 26

million mt

1.3

1.4

1.5

1.9

2.4

CO2 emissions Scope 37

million mt

93.9

90.8

105.0

105.2

121.0

Specific CO2 emissions

mt/MWh

0.708

0.745

0.751

0.792

0.787

Capital expenditure of the Renewables Division

€ million

418

738

1,086

1,093

891

%

5.3

4.8

6.3

5.5

4.3

€ million

101

110

151

150

146

Share of the Group’s electricity generation accounted for by renewables
R&D costs
Society
Employees8

59,762

59,784

64,896

70,208

72,068

%

11.2

14.2

11.5

10.8

10.1

3.8

3.9

4.2

4.5

4.6

%

95.1

95.4

95.4

95.5

95.8

LTIF9

2.2

2.3

2.3

2.8

2.8

4

5

1

4

3

%

26.8

26.6

27.7

27.5

27.1

Share of women in executive positions

%

15.2

14.3

13.9

12.3

11.3

Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high
or a very high risk of corruption12

%

10.5

10.0

13.0

13.7

12.4

Fluctuation rate
Training days per employee (Germany)
Health ratio
Lost-time incident frequency
Fatal work-related accidents10
Corporate governance
Share of women in the company
11

1	Figures for 2013 adjusted due to the first-time
application of IFRS 11.
2	Since 2015 including power plants not owned
by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion
on the basis of long-term agreements.
3	Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface water; excluding power plants with sea
water cooling.
4	Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house
sources (oil and gas production, gas transmission and electricity generation).
5	Including power plants not owned by RWE
that we can deploy at our discretion on the
basis of long-term agreements.
6	Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the
transmission and distribution of electricity
purchased from third parties.
7	Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not
fall under scope 1 and scope 2, produced
through the generation of electricity procured
from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks,
the production of used combustion fuels, as
well as the consumption of gas sold to customers.
8 Converted to full-time positions.
9	Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all accidents resulting in at least one day of absence
for every 1 million hours worked). Figures for
2012 incl. reports known to us from thirdparty companies (subcontractors).
10	Including employees of partner companies
(subcontractors).
11	In 2015, encompasses the top four management levels.
12	Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0
to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by
the anti-corruption organisation Transparency
International (TI), with 100 corresponding to
the lowest risk of corruption.

05 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain

OUR VALUE CHAIN
RWE is an integrated energy supplier and operates at all stages of the value chain. At the
moment, we are adapting our business model to the changes in the sector. This is because
the energy industry in Europe is undergoing a fundamental change. We are increasingly
focusing on initiatives for local energy supply, seeking out partnerships with municipal
utilities and other investors, and we want to drive the energy transition forward together
with local residents in the community. We are achieving these goals by offering our
customers products and services on the basis of innovative technologies. This is also
reflected in the structure of our value chain.
We have allocated our CR areas for action to the stages of the value chain and highlighted
the relevant challenges. These vary according to the different stages of the value chain.
Furthermore, the representation includes an allocation of the key aspects in accordance
with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (p. 24). The GRI Guidelines
are the leading standard in sustainability reporting and they have been implemented by
RWE since 2001. Within this framework, we also state whether the opportunities for
exerting influence to overcome the key challenges confronting us are inside or outside the
RWE Group.

GRI G4-18; G4-23



Content

06 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Our value chain

Extraction of lignite and provision and supply of biomass
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE extracts lignite in its own opencast mines, and produces wood pellets and other biomass fuels

5 opencast lignite mines (10,823 hectares)
104 million mt of lignite products at our opencast
mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area and in
Hungary

22,950 hectares of recultivated land at opencast
mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area
699,719 t mt of wood pellets manufactured at the
Waycross pellet plant (USA)

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Environmental Protection and
Biodiversity

--Sustainable recultivation of mining areas
--Safeguarding the water resources in the region
--Structuring environmental mitigation measures
--Minimising particulate and noise emissions

--Water
--Biodiversity
--Effluents and waste
--Compliance (environment)
--Overall (environment)
--Environmental grievance mechanisms

Supply Chain

--Sustainable production of wood pellets and other biomass fuels

- Procurement practices

Community Engagement

--Resettlement of residents under social and ethical conditions
--Acceptance in the population

--Indirect economic impacts
--Local communities
--Public policy
--Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society

Occupational Safety and
Healthcare Management

--Guaranteeing the health and work ability of our employees and the employees
of our subcontractors

--Occupational health and safety

Security of Supply

--Quality and appropriate quantities supplied to power plants
--Maintenance of infrastructure for coal extraction from approved mines

--Availability and reliability
--Demand-side managemen

Key impact opportunity
Inside the RWE Group

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

Outside the RWE Group

07 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Supply and trading
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE supplies and trades in commodities including coal, natural gas, biomass, electricity
and CO2 certificates

1,448 TWh of electricity
648 billion m3 of gas

864 million mt of hard coal
1,258 million barrels of oil

557 million CO2 certificates

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Supply Chain

--Human rights, social standards, and environmental protection in the producing
countries
--Sustainable cultivation of biomass in the supply countries

--Procurement practices
--Supplier environmental assessment
--Supplier assessment for labour practices
--Supplier human rights assessment
--Supplier assessment for impacts on society

Key impact opportunity
Inside the RWE Group

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

Outside the RWE Group

08 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Power and heat generation
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE constructs and operates fossil-fired power stations, in the field of renewable energies principally
wind farms as well as hydropower plants, and biomass power stations. Other activities of the Group
include operation and decommissioning of our nuclear power stations.

77.8 TWh of lignite
46.5 TWh of hard coal

42.6 TWh of gas
31.7 TWh of nuclear energy

11.4 TWh of renewable energies
3 TWh of pumped storage, oil,
miscellaneous

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Key impact opportunity

Climate Protection

--Reduction in CO2 emissions
--Making the power plant portfolio more flexible in order to adjust to the volatile
feed-in of renewable energies
--Connection to offshore wind farms

--Plant decommissioning
--Efficiency of the power plant portfolio and the distribution
--Emissions
--Products and services

Energy Efficiency

--Increase in the efficiency of energy use in the power plants

- Efficiency of the power
plant portfolio

Environmental Protection
and Biodiversity

--Limiting the emissions of pollutants
--Treatment and minimisation of the
(cooling) water used
--Use of pumped water for heat supply
--Reduction of particulate and noise
emissions
--Safe operation of nuclear power stations
--Disposal of radioactive waste

--Water
--Biodiversity
--Effluents and waste
--Compliance (environment)
--Overall (environment)
--Environmental grievance
mechanisms

Community Engagement

--Acceptance for construction measures
--Acceptance for plant operation

--Indirect economic impacts
--Local communities
--Public policy

Occupational Safety and
Healthcare Management

--Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees
of our partner companies (subcontractors)

- Occupational health and
safety

Security of Supply

--Guaranteeing security of supply
--Contribution to system stability

- Availability and reliability

Innovation

- Development of climate-friendly and efficient technologies, projects and concepts

--Research and development

Inside the RWE Group

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

--Preparation and safe implementation of
decommissioning concepts
--Sustainable freshwater management
--Noise abatement during the construction of offshore wind farms
--Compliance with national and
international requirements for the
sustainability of the biomass used

- Energy

--Grievance mechanisms for
impacts on society

- Demand-side management
--Access

Outside the RWE Group

09 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Distribution of electricity and gas
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE expands, operates and maintains distribution grids for electricity and gas.

393,000 km of distributions grids for electricity
112,000 km of distribution grids for gas

315,000 of generating plants for renewable energies
connected to our German grids

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Environmental Protection
and Biodiversity

- Reduction of impacts on local ecosystems

--Water
--Biodiversity
--Effluents and waste
--Compliance (environment)
--Overall (environment)
--Environmental grievance mechanisms

Occupational Safety and
Healthcare Management

- Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees of
our partner companies (subcontractors)

--Occupational health and safety

Security of Supply

- Concepts for flexible load distribution for feed-in of renewable energies
--Expansion of suitable storage facilities
--Uninterrupted supply with electricity
--Acceptance of grid expansion
--Uninterrupted supply with gas

--Availability and reliability
--Demand-side management
--Access

Innovation

--Integration of renewable energies, innovative and technical solutions for avoiding
unnecessary grid expansion

- Research and development

Key impact opportunity
Inside the RWE Group

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

Outside the RWE Group

10 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Retail business and use of electricity and gas
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE supplies electricity and gas to residential, business and industrial customers, and to distributors such
as municipal utilities. RWE also offers its customers a broad range of innovative products and services,
such as energy consulting, electromobility and intelligent house control.

16.42 million electricity customers
7.02 million gas customers

262.1 TWh of external retail business for electricity
296.7 TWh of external retail business for gas

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Climate Protection

--Measures and packages for climate protection at our customers

--Emissions
--Products and services

Market and Customers

--Competitive, individualised and flexible packages
--Support for customers in energy savings

--Demand-side management
--Products and services
--Product and service labelling
--Customer privacy

Innovation

--Development of technologies, products and ser-vices for controlling the generation,
consumption and storage of energy at the customer

--Research and development

Key impact opportunity
Inside the RWE Group

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

Outside the RWE Group

11 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Our value chain



Content

Our employees
Activities:

KPIs 2015:

RWE takes responsibility for its employees and offers them support for their personal and career
development alongside ethical treatment and fair remuneration.

59,762 employees1

26.8% proportion of
women in the company

2,339 apprentices

2,381 severely disabled
employees in Germany

Challenges and key impact opportunity
Area for action

Challenges

Material GRI aspects

Employees

--Maintaining and promoting the motivation and work ability of our employees
--Restructuring measures at social and ethical conditions
--Promotion of diversity and inclusion in the company

--Employment
--Labour/Management relations
--Training and education
--Diversity and equal opportunity
--Equal remuneration for women and men

Key impact opportunity
Inside the RWE Group

Other material GRI aspects (across value added stages):
--Economic performance
--Labour practices Grievance mechanisms
--Humans rights Grievance mechanisms
--Anti-corruption
--Anti-competitive behaviour
--Compliance (society)
--Disaster/Emergency planning and response
1 Calculated in Full Time Equivalents (FTE)

GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

Outside the RWE Group

12 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions



Content

DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR REGIONS
Our market environment and the demands of the community are changing with the transition of the energy systems
in Europe. We are meeting the diverse challenges faced by the RWE group at all levels of the value chain and in all the
regions where we are operating.

Europe’s energy industry in transition
Climate-friendly, decentralised and digital: These are the current
trends in the energy economy. They have arisen particularly as a
result of the expansion of renewable energies and the trends are
associated with increasing challenges for integration in the grid.
These changes are modifying the way energy markets operate –
with major impacts on our business success.
As a result, the operating result of RWE Innogy, the subsidiary
focusing on renewable energies, more than doubled in 2015.
This has therefore consolidated the position of the company in
the marketplace.

These factors and the ongoing reduction of prices in the electricity
wholesale market are therefore cutting down the revenues derived
from our conventional power plants, especially in Continental Europe.
Many plants, in particular gas-fired power plants, are no longer able
to cover their operating costs. Paradoxically, their use is popular with
a large number of stakeholders because they are regarded as flexible
and by comparison with coal-fired power stations emit less CO2 per
unit of electricity generated. Alongside energy generated in a climate-friendly way, customers in virtually all European countries
expect more service quality and lower prices for electricity and gas.
A top priority for RWE is therefore on good value for money in existing brands and when new brands are introduced.

In wholesale markets for electricity generation, regulatory instruments like the feed-in priority for renewable energies and their
remuneration through the system of subsidies increase demand.
As a result, electricity prices are falling in this market segment and
also the associated utilisation of our conventional power plants.

Citizens, companies and energy cooperatives generate electricity
themselves at decentralised plants, for their own use or to feed into
the public electricity grid. This opens up opportunities for new business models such as offers of package solutions for photovoltaic
systems, which also include assembly and an insurance policy.

13 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions

These systems have already been prepared for connection to an
electricity storage device. We also offer solar power storage units for
controlling electricity generators’ own consumption of the energy
they have produced and energy cooperatives in which citizens themselves can be directly involved in expansion of renewable energies.
Digitisation helps to link up these and other local market players with
each other as efficiently as possible. As a consequence of the change
in market conditions, RWE is taking on an aggregator role as a marketer of flexibilities.
So that we can continue to successfully maintain our position in the
changed market environment, we have already taken a variety of
measures. These include comprehensive activities for reducing costs
and a strategic realignment with a stronger focus on new business
models so that we are in a position to offer our customers innovative
solutions. RWE is continuing to expand the Innovation Hub established in 2014 to further development of these solutions (p. 84).



Content

At the same time, the motivator of innovations is also driving forward
new conceptual and operational approaches with the organisation at
RWE. In 2015, measures supporting the cultural change included the
following projects:
QQ New Way of Working (NWoW): The name of the programme

represents a new mindset and approach to carrying out work.
In a difficult period the Group wants to strike out on the new
pathways into the future created by NWoW. This will change our
entire working culture over the long term.
QQ Next Level Leadership (NLL): NLL is a programme for our top
managers. It is intended to empower them to successfully bring
about the transformation of RWE.
QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP): We are carrying out the
DBP in order to implement group-wide projects and establish a
uniform understanding of change and leadership.

14 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Our regions



Content

Our regions
RWE is an international Group which employs a total
of 59,762 permanent employees in 21 countries.
Germany
Customers

1

8,122

Conventional power plants
Employees2

United Kingdom

Customers

Customers1

1

4,704

Power plant capacities in MW

Power plant capacities in MW
Renewable energies

Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg

1,630
26,441
35,170

Renewable energies
Conventional power plants
Employees2

Power plant capacities in MW
355
6,070
3,098

Western and Southern Europe
Customers1

–

Conventional power plants
Employees

2

Renewable energies

1,313

Conventional power plants

8,581

Employees2

586
–
74

9,220

Central Eastern and South-eastern
Europe and Turkey
Customers1

Power plant capacities in MW
Renewable energies

5,205

5,406

Power plant capacities in MW
Renewable energies
Conventional power plants
Employees2

261
1,634
12,076

Overall
Customers1

23,437

Power plant capacities in MW
Renewable energies
Conventional power plants
Employees2

4,146
43,906
59,762

1 In thousands. 2 Employees in FTE. The total number incl. 9 FTE in Switzerland, 95 FTE in the USA and 20 FTE in Asia.

15 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Germany



Content

Germany
Our biggest market is Germany. This is where we generate 57% of
our total sales amounting to € 26.3 billion (not including levies on
natural gas/electricity). The historic roots of our company are also
based in Germany. We manage the entire RWE Group from our Head
Office located in Essen.
Grids and retail business
RWE is one of the biggest operators of distribution grids in Germany
and we operate electricity distribution grids with a total length of
331,000 km and gas distribution grids with a total length of around
48,000 km. At the end of 2015, we were granted around 3,000 electricity grid and 800 gas grid concession agreements in Germany with
a term of at least 15 to 20 years. Alongside the sale of electricity, gas
and heat, we are also active in the areas of energy efficiency and
electromobility, as well as in the development and operation of
smart devices to measure and control energy consumption. Overall,
we supply around 8.1 million customers in Germany with electricity
and gas, in addition to other energy services. The regional companies enviaM, LEW, Süwag and VSE are part of the RWE Group and we
also have shareholdings in around 70 regional and local-authority
energy utilities.
Renewable energies
In Germany, we are particularly strong in the area of renewable energies. At the end of 2015, RWE in Germany was operating consolidated generating capacity of renewable energies amounting to
1,630 MW, of which 621 MW is generated by hydropower, 921 MW is
wind energy, and 31 MW is biomass. In May 2015, RWE officially
opened the Nordsee Ost offshore wind farm off the German coast. It

has an installed output of 295 MW and this ranks it among the biggest wind farms of its kind. At the beginning of the autumn months
when there is plenty of wind, a production record of around 6,500
MWh was achieved at this wind farm in one day. In the Rhineland lignite mining area, we also brought the Königshoven Heights wind
farm on stream. This is a joint project between RWE Innogy and the
town of Bedburg, with total installed output of 67 MW. RWE also
supports the development of future-proof technologies and provides
seed capital for innovative companies at the pump-priming stage or
finance for them in the growth phase.
Extraction and conventional generation of electricity
RWE operates three large opencast mines in Germany for the production of lignite. We have four lignite-fired power stations with a total
generating capacity of 10,221 MW located very close to our lignite
mines at Neurath, Niederaußem, Weisweiler and Frimmersdorf. These
include the lignite-fired power stations BoA1, and BoA 2 & 3 with
optimised plant technology, which are currently the most advanced
lignite-fired units in the world. In Germany, we also have generating
capacity of 5,352 MW from hard coal and 4,411 MW from gas in our
portfolio. At the end of 2015, we additionally had generating capacities of nuclear energy in Germany amounting to 3,908 MW. Following
the exit from nuclear energy adopted by the German Government,
our last nuclear power station is scheduled to exit from the grid in
2022. We are not involved in investment projects for nuclear energy.
We have a further generating capacity of 2,549 MW in the area of
pumped-storage and other power-plant capacities. Overall, RWE in
Germany operates conventional power plants with a total capacity of
26,441 MW.

16 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Germany



Content

Further stages in the energy transition
By 2020, CO2 emissions in Germany are projected to fall by 40%
compared with levels in 1990. The German Government has made
a commitment to this target. The reduction of electricity generation from lignite is intended to make a major contribution. In
October 2015, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy
submitted a plan detailing how older and less efficient lignitefired power stations should gradually be phased out from the
grid. Eight power-plant units across Germany are affected with a
combined output of 2,730 MW, including five units operated by
RWE in Frimmersdorf, Niederaußem and Neurath (p. 44).

Initially, they are to be used for security standby, but after this
period has come to an end they will be shut down completely.
This would reduce the production of electricity from lignite
extracted in the Rhineland lignite mining region by 15%. While
the power-plant units are kept in reserve, the operators will
receive remuneration. RWE welcomed this plan as a constructive
solution for structuring the energy transition with socially ethical
conditions. The security standby replaced the climate protection
levy rebate for older power plants that had previously been considered. The rebate was strongly criticised by companies and
unions alike because of its impact on jobs in the region.

17 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | United Kingdom



Content

United Kingdom
The United Kingdom is an important market for us. RWE is one of
the six biggest energy suppliers in the country and produces around
10% of the electricity used there. In 2015, we generated sales of
€ 10 billion in the UK with a total workforce of 9,220 employees.
Retail business
We are one of the leading suppliers of electricity and gas with around
5.2 million retail and business customers in the United Kingdom.
We also offer energy services.
Our retail company there – RWE npower – concluded 2015 with an
operating loss of € 137 million. Apart from market-related effects,
process and system problems in residential customer accounting
played a major role in this result. RWE accepted the consequences in
2015 and appointed a new Board of Management for its British subsidiaries. A restructuring concept was also submitted and a lot of
work was done on stabilisation of the IT infrastructure. Most of the
process and system problems should have been eliminated by the
end of 2016.
Renewable energies
In 2015, RWE in the United Kingdom concentrated on the expansion
of renewable energies in onshore and offshore wind farms. Overall,
we operate 1,313 MW of generating capacity from renewable energies.
In 2015, we brought on stream the second biggest offshore wind
farm in the world, Gwynt y Môr wind farm located off the coast of
North Wales with a total capacity of 576 MW, and it is now operating
at full capacity. This enables Gwynt y Môr to supply 400,000 households with electricity, and this amounts to approximately one third of

all the households in Wales. The capital expenditure of € 2.8 billion
has been split between RWE Innogy (50%), Stadtwerke München
GmbH (30%), Siemens (10%) and UK Green Investment Bank (10%).
The construction phase for the onshore wind farms Goole Fields 2
with a planned capacity of 35 MW and Batsworthy Cross with a
planned capacity of 18 MW started in 2015.We also started up operation with a hydropower plant at Black Rock, Scotland, with a capacity of 3.5 MW.
Conventional electricity generation
In the United Kingdom, RWE operates hard-coal, and combined-cycle
gas turbine power stations, as well as efficient cogeneration power
plants, with a total capacity of 8,581 MW. Gas-fired power stations
form the biggest proportion. The Pembroke combined-cycle gas power
station is one of the most efficient power plants of its kind in Europe
with a net output of more than 2,200 MW. It also has the highest level
of efficiency with more than 60%.
In 2011, the government of the United Kingdom announced a plan
to reform the electricity market. One element of this plan is the auction of electricity in the capacity market. It was introduced two years
ago and is intended to prevent potential power outages. Generators
guarantee the availability of certain capacities over a period of four
years and receive financial compensation for this.
In 2015, there was a change in energy policy. The United Kingdom Government announced proposals to build new gas-fired power stations
and close existing hard-coal power stations. The consultation period for
these proposals is scheduled to start at the beginning of 2016.

18 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | United Kingdom



Content

A new purchasing concept for energy
In 2015, RWE concluded a partnership with a company from New
Zealand, Meridian Energy, which presents an innovative concept
for obtaining energy.
This partnership enables RWE to bring “Powershop” to the United
Kingdom as the world’s first online shop for gas and electricity. The
shop concept is easily accessible and allows customers to purchase
energy in defined units known as Power Packs. This enables them
to purchase electricity precisely when energy prices are particularly
low. Long-term contractual conditions are no longer necessary.

Customers of Powershop can also decide whether they pay for
their energy before or after consuming it, and they can change the
way they pay at any time. They can also opt to get their energy
from renewable sources.
A comprehensive system test by the project team at Powershop
and RWE will be carried out in 2016. This is intended to ensure that
the launch of the pack age runs smoothly and that customers have
good experiences with it.

19 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Netherlands · Belgium · Luxembourg



Content

Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg
RWE is one of the leading energy utilities in the Netherlands and Belgium, with conventional and renewable electricity generation, as well
as electricity and gas supply.

The Thornton Bank offshore wind farm has a capacity of 325 MW and
is one of the biggest facilities of its kind in the Belgian section of the
North Sea. RWE has a stake of around 27% in this offshore wind farm.

Retail business
In the Netherlands, in Belgium and in Luxembourg we have about 4.7
million electricity and gas customers. Since the start of 2015, our
retail company there – Essent – has become the market leader and
the largest utility in the Dutch Energy market. The biggest challenger
in the market is our subsidiary Energiedirect.nl. More than one million customers use our “green power” product. In Belgium, we have
350,000 customers and we are continuing to expand our energy
retail business there to offer our customers products and services
alongside gas and electricity.

At the end of 2015 RWE Innogy announced its intention join forces
with partners and take part in the tender for the Borssele offshore
wind farm with a planned capacity of 700 MW.

Renewable energies
RWE is one of the major investors in wind farms in the Netherlands
and Belgium, and its portfolio includes onshore and offshore facilities. At the end of 2015, we were operating wind turbines here with
a total capacity of 203 MW. In November 2015, the first 7.5 MW turbine of the Zuidwester (90 MW) wind farm was connected to the
grid. From 2017, this wind farm is estimated to provide electricity for
nominally 90,000 households. In the north of the Netherlands, the
government is currently examining various possible sites for new
wind farms with the objective of minimising the impacts on local residents. The plan favoured by the government involves RWE building
15 wind turbines.

Conventional energy generation
In the Netherlands and Belgium, RWE operates conventional power
plants with a total generating capacity of 6,070 MW. At our coal-fired
power station in Geertruidenberg, the older Amer 8 unit was taken
out of the grid at the end of 2015. The Amer 9 power plant is
equipped to fire up to 35% biomass. As a result of a technical fault,
this amount of combined combustion was not fully utilised. Furthermore, the government support scheme for combined combustion
came to an end in April 2015. We hope to restart cofiring biomass to
replace hard coal in 2017. The new hard-coal power station in Eemshaven with a total capacity of 1,554 MW started commercial operation in 2015. We also intend to use biomass for electricity generation
there as well if technical and commercial conditions permit. RWE also
holds a minority shareholding of 30% in the Borssele nuclear power
station in the Netherlands.

20 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Netherlands · Belgium · Luxembourg

In Luxembourg, we operate the Vianden pumped-storage power
plant. This is one of the largest power generating facilities of its type
in Europe. The plant plays a key role in the stabilisation of Europe’s
electricity grids and in maintaining the balance between feed-in and
consumption of electricity and it is connected to the German grid.



Content

Following the Paris Climate Conference in December (p. 42), the
Dutch Parliament adopted a motion to work out scenarios for exiting
from coal-fired generation of electricity in the Netherlands. The government has made a commitment to the Parliament that it would
reach a decision based on the results of a study about the future
development of the Dutch energy market before the end of the current legislative period in March 2017.

Retail channels in transition
In the Netherlands, we are being challenged by increasing switch
and price competition, and a decreasing energy and gas usage as
a result of increasing energy efficiency and decentralised generation. In 2015, we successfully maintained our position in this
competitive situation by increasing our retail channel footprint
and claiming the home domain of residential customers in a
strong business. Alongside energy and gas, we offer customers
other products for digital control of household technology that
increase their comfort and quality of life, as well as helping them
to save energy at the same time.
A successful retail channel was provided by the “shop-in-shop”
concept in partnership with well-known retail stores. This concept
involves customers receiving a gift voucher when they opt for an
Essent energy contract. In 2015, issues were raised in the market

relating to the legislation governing this form of selling. After
consultation with the Consumer Authority, Essent has now
extended its two-week cooling-off period, when a new customer is
free to reverse their decision. This now includes all retail channels
and the intention is to avoid any confusion among customers.
Our aim is to gradually make Essent a more efficient company
with the customer placed at the centre of all our activities. In
2015, Essent Retail was awarded the Bronze Standard for our
internal so-called House in Order programme.
In Belgium, Essent plays an active role in the debate about
energy policy conducted in the public domain. The company
actively looks to cooperate with the government and other parties with the objective of offering alternative solutions for energy
supplies in Belgium and constructing a new, sustainable model
for the energy market of the future.

21 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Central Eastern Europe · South-eastern Europe · Turkey



Content

Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe and Turkey
RWE is also an active player in Central Eastern and South-eastern
Europe, and Turkey with operations in the areas of retail business and
grids. The Group also operates in conventional generation and renewable energies. We have businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania, and Turkey. Overall, we
supply around 5.4 million customers there with energy and services.

Romania and we supply customers there with electricity. Our focus is
directed towards small and mid-size companies, and industrial customers. Since the summer of 2015, RWE has been supplying commercial and residential customers in Slovenia with electricity. We
were the first large European energy company to start operating in
this country.

Grids and retail business
Retail business, distribution, decentralised energy generation and
storage of gas are the focus of our business in the Czech Republic.
RWE operates a gas distribution grid there with a length of 63,875 km
and supplies 1.35 million customers with natural gas. We also sell
electricity in the Czech Republic and we supply around 300,000 customers with power. In Hungary, RWE operates an electricity distribution grid with a length of 46,200 km and we supply around 2.1 million customers with electricity. The retail business of selling gas to
business customers started up in 2015. We have an electricity distribution grid in Poland with a total length of 15,998 km and we supply
around 934,000 customers with electricity. We also supply natural
gas in Poland. We supply more than 125,000 customers in Slovakia
with natural gas. We also operate an electricity grid 22,108 km in
length and we are developing decentralised energy solutions in Central and Eastern Slovakia. We are active in energy retail business in
Croatia and we supply nearly 107,000 customers with electricity. This
year also saw the gas retail business starting up in this country. Since
2014, RWE has been operating a nationwide retail organisation in

Renewable energies
In Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, we have a consolidated
generating capacity of renewable energies amounting to 261 MW.
In Poland, we are continuing to expand these capacities. We have a
total of eight wind farms there with an installed output of 242 MW.
In Hungary, we opened a photovoltaic plant with an installed output
of 16 MW next to the Mátra power plant. The plant can supply an
estimated 4,000 households with renewable energy.
Conventional electricity generation
In our region of Central Eastern, and South-eastern Europe and
Turkey, we operate conventional power plants with a total capacity
of 1,634 MW. In Hungary, we operate the Mátra lignite-fired power
station in conjunction with two associated opencast lignite mines
encompassing an operating area of 1,283 hectares. In 2015, we
produced a total of 8.8 million mt of lignite. The power plant has a
generating output of 780 MW and it was also fuelled using biomass.
In Turkey, RWE operates a modern, highly efficient gas-fired power
station with an output of 775 MW.

22 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Developments in our regions | Western and Southern Europe · Other countries

Western and Southern Europe
RWE is only active in the area of renewable energies in Spain, Italy,
France and Portugal. It operates wind farms and hydropower plants
in these countries. Furthermore, RWE has a stake in the Andasol solar
thermal power plant in Spain. Overall, we have a total installed generating output of 513 MW for wind energy and 73 MW for hydropower in Spain, Italy, France and Portugal.

Other countries
We carry out activities outside Europe in the USA and the MENAT
region (Near East, and North Africa). RWE also has trading locations
in Mumbai, New York and Singapore.



Content

23 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

CR strategy and management



Content

CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
We pursue the objective of integrating sustainability in the core business of RWE through our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. At an
early stage, we defined ten areas for action with concrete goals and measurable key performance indicators (KPI), and these have been developed over the years. The realignment of the Group that has now been adopted and the rapid transformation of our sector means that we now
also have to consider and modify our CR Strategy.

Roadmap of our Corporate Responsibility

Strategy

Coordination and
management

Reporting and
dialogue

Launch
(1998 – 2000)

Structuring
(2001 – 2005)

Implementation
(2006 – 2010)

Role of CR driver
(2011 – 2015)

Group Guideline on
Environmental Management

Group CR guidelines

Review of CR areas for action

Continuous updating of the
CR areas for action

CR strategy

Embedding of CR in all business
areas

Permanent staff of
environmental officers

Introduction of occupational
safety management system

Key performance indicators
concept for CR

CR targets as a constituent
element of the variable compensation payable to members of
the Executive Board

Introduction of Environmental
Reporting and Information System

Introduction of group-wide
Code of Conduct

Group programme for
implementation of CR

Regular reporting on KPIs
(Key Performance Indicators)

1st systematic environmental
report

1st CR Report

Institutionalised stakeholder
dialogue

Industry leader in transparency

Inclusion in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index

Convention on the future of
sustainable development

Corporate Volunteering –
Programme

24 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

CR strategy and management

Ongoing development and transformation
In our Roadmap 2020, we defined our goal of being the transparency
leader in the sector by 2015. We achieved this goal with acknowledged comprehensive reporting, controlling of our areas for action in
accordance with measurable key performance indicators, and integration of CR aspects in the variable compensation for the members
of the Executive Board. The goal for the upcoming years was defined
as: Best in Class. Fundamentally, this goal is still driving us forward.
However, the radical structural changes in the energy industry and
the agreed realignment of the Group mean that we now have to
redefine exactly what we mean by this, and how it can be measured
and controlled. Some of our previous ten areas for action will simply
be developed further, although we will additionally define completely new focuses for others in order to reflect the transformation
of our sector and the restructuring of our Group.
Corporate Responsibility will continue to play a central role at RWE.
The objective will be to deal with the changes taking place within
our company and our lines of business, and to be a successful commercial player with a sound community reputation in the energy
world of tomorrow. The many years of experience in dialogue with
our stakeholders will assist us in this endeavour alongside the tested
structures of our CR Management, which we have built up and developed continuously since 1998.
Anchoring CR in the organisation
The group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate Responsibility is coordinated by the Group Corporate Responsibility/Environment/Diversity Department within Group Corporate Affairs. The head
of this department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer.



Content

Since 2014, the RWE Stakeholder Council (p. 30) has been advising
the Executive Board of the Group on sustainability issues. Furthermore, representatives from the Group Centre and the major operating companies come together at meetings held by the staff of CR
officers several times a year. These meetings serve as forums for
coordinating ideas and discussing joint activities.
Making CR successes quantifiable
We consistently pursue the goal of making governance and its effectiveness quantifiable and controllable. Targets, measures and concrete key performance indicators underpin each of our ten areas for
action. The annual review shows whether we are on the right track or
highlights whether modifications need to be made and where these
are required. This review takes account of developments in the areas
for action, the strategy of the RWE Group and the expectations of
our stakeholders (p. 35).
We have also created long-term incentives for sustainable corporate
governance by linking part of the variable compensation payable to
Members of the Executive Board with the achievement of our CR
goals. The assessment of the outcome is carried out by the Supervisory Board of the RWE Group. Relevant CR aspects are also channelled
into the individual balanced scorecards of the operating companies.
Transparency with high standards
Our reporting is based on the globally acknowledged guidelines of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the principles of the UN Global Compact, and the demands of the financial market – the so-called ESG Model
(Environment, Social, Governance). This enables us to ensure that we
comply comprehensively with the growing demands being placed on

25 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

CR strategy and management

the quality of our CR Management and our reporting. We have also
developed a Data Recording Manual with the aim of continuously
improving the quality of our CR indicators. This manual sets out binding
definitions, assessment limits and processes for collecting data.
Transparency with dialogue
The community has expectations of openness, dialogue and participation, and RWE meets these expectations by going beyond the
scope of reporting. In collaboration with the operating companies,

GRI G4-27



Content

we track all important developments on the issue of sustainability
and evaluate them for their relevance to the RWE Group. We engage
in dialogue with stakeholders at different levels – European,
national, and regional – and they provide us with important information. However, we are also aware that broad sections of society
have a critical stance in relation to our company. A key target of our
CR Strategy in the process of realignment will therefore also be the
expansion of dialogue in order to generate understanding and
acceptance for our actions.

26 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Compliance and risk management



Content

COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Challenge and targets
Acting in accordance with the law and rules and procedures is an
integral part of our corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches mean
that the company can suffer major and serious reputational damage.
RWE therefore bases all its activities and business decisions on established rules for compliance and does not tolerate any corruption or
other breaches of compliance regulations. Compliance requirements
are factored in when taking all decisions on entering into business
relations with suppliers or business partners (p. 70 f.).
The main focus of our internal compliance management is to raise
the level of awareness among our employees and our governance
bodies in order to prevent the possibility of any breaches. The RWE
Code of Conduct is a group-wide reference standard which sets out
a guidance framework for all our employees. This document defines
binding conditions for compliance with national and international
laws and regulations, as well as rules for fair dealings with market
participants and competitors. The prevention of corruption is particularly important here. Compliance with the guidelines is supported
by organisational regulations, notably the double-checking principle,
separation of functions, authorisation concept and rules for approval.
The Code of Conduct is given concrete form by additional Group
Guidelines.

Compliance organisation
The Centre of Expertise Legal & Compliance based at RWE Group
Business Services GmbH is responsible for directing our Compliance
Management system. The Group Centre continues to have overall
responsibility for governance. National Compliance Officers in all the
operating companies are responsible for uniform implementation of
group-wide principles. In some regions where RWE is operating with
several subsidiary companies, compliance functions are bundled and
dealt with by a national compliance officer. An independent, external
ombudsman is also available to receive information about any reaches
of the Code of Conduct from employees and from external third parties. Reports can be submitted in the relevant national languages
and must remain anonymous if requested by the whistleblower.
The Chief Compliance Officer submits regular reports about issues
relevant to compliance to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG. Internal media within the Group inform our employees about behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and
also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. Members of
our workforce are also able to take part in a wide range of training
sessions through a web-based training programme and at presentation events. Participation is obligatory and calibrated according
to the risk of corruption associated with the relevant activity. The
Executive Board too is integrated in this training concept. We have

27 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Compliance and risk management



Content

developed our training further taking risk aspects into account and
we will start a new training cycle in 2016. On completion of the current cycle, we were able to deliver training at face-to-face events to
around 2,800 employees in Germany and around 500 employees
in other regions where RWE operates over the course of 2015.

Auditing firm KPMG audited the Compliance Management System in
order to combat any corruption in accordance with the IDW Audit
Standard 980 drawn up by the German Institute of Auditors (Institut
der Wirtschaftsprüfer). The efficacy audit was successfully completed
at year-end 2013/14.

Compliance monitoring
We are able to track all compliance-sensitive procedures using our
group-wide database. The use of this compliance IT tool is mandatory. This is how we are able to guarantee maximum transparency
within the company. We also offer comprehensive assistance in processing the defined transactions.

Group security
As an operator of a critical infrastructure, RWE is aware of its community importance in delivering a secure supply of energy. Security
Management is therefore a central management function at RWE.
The Group Security Department reports directly to the Executive
Board of RWE AG. As a governance function, it provides universal
structures and controls for the issue of security in the Group. Measures are derived on the basis of predictive risk management which
achieves a commercially appropriate level of protection for tangible
and intangible company assets, and for personnel and sensitive business processes. Information security is an integral element of security management within this structure.

We use a two-stage process to identify and assess compliance risks
which arise for the RWE Group in the area of corruption. After we had
established the risk profiles for the Group companies reporting
directly to RWE AG in 2012, we moved onto a second stage in 2013
which focused on developing detailed corruption risk scenarios. In
2015, other companies were included in the detailed analysis, and
risk workshops were carried out for this purpose in the individual
Group companies. The analysis is being continued in 2016.
The Group Audit Department regularly carries out preventive compliance audits in the Group companies. This enables us to review the
implementation and effectiveness of our Compliance Management
across the Group. We always follow up any information relating to
potential breaches of compliance and we take any necessary measures as required. The reviews carried out by the Group Audit Department for the year 2015 revealed no material or systematic breaches
of our compliance guidelines. Any individual shortcomings in processes or in the documentation were remedied.

In July 2015, the German IT Security Act (IT-SiG) came into force in
Germany. This act committed operators of critical infrastructures to
protect their sensitive systems and processes against cyber-attacks.
A directive providing specific guidelines is expected for the year
2016 and this will give further details. RWE is actively contributing its
specialist expertise and is a member of various committees and specialist associations working on these issues. RWE has joined together
with other energy utilities and is doing intensive work on establishing a sector solution (CyberSecurityHub-E) to implement the reporting requirements of the IT Security Act (IT-SiG).

28 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Compliance and risk management

RWE is a member of the “Cyber Security Council Germany” (CyberSicherheitsrat Deutschland e.V.) and the “Alliance for Cyber Security”
of the Federal Office for Security in Information Technology (Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, BSI). At the moment,
Group Security provides the Spokesman for the Energy Sector in the
UP KRITIS of the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI), the initiative for cooperation between industry and government for protecting critical infrastructures in Germany.



Content

However, we are not only investing in security partnerships but also
in the high quality and advanced training of our employees. The
qualifications of our security specialists are therefore based on internationally accredited and verifiable standards. We believe that it is
important to engage in ongoing communication with other experts.
Training courses for RWE security experts, including courses provided
at the National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance (NCFTA) in the
USA make an important contribution on this issue.
More information is provided on additional management systems in
the sections on the relevant areas for action:
QQ Environmental Management (p. 51)
QQ Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management (p. 75)
QQ Innovation Management (p. 84)

29 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue



Content

STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE
Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations with which
we maintain relations and engage in dialogue. We also regard as
stakeholders individuals and entities who seek communication with
us or who are interested in our company. The expectations placed on
RWE are very different and depend on the area of business and on
the region.
In order to identify the different aspirations and take account of
them in our corporate policy, we are in continuous communication
with our stakeholders. Our company regularly engages in communication based on differing formats with customers, academics, politicians, representatives of environmental organisations, neighbours of
our locations and other citizens. We also seek contact with other
players who are involved in issues relating to the energy industry and
the entrepreneurial actions of RWE and their effects on the community at large.
Constructive exchange of ideas at different levels
The communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable ideas for
the orientation of our corporate activities (p. 35). As a company
undergoing a process of change at the present time, it is particularly

GRI G4-24; G4-25; G4-26; G4-27

important for us to discuss expectations and projections about the
future of energy supply with external stakeholders. At the same time,
this dialogue provides us with the opportunity to give them better
communication on our company decisions and explain the underlying
motivation.
The dialogue takes place at different levels. Accordingly, we engage
in discussions at local level with neighbouring residents and citizens’
initiatives, for example about construction measures and approval
proceedings. Our local residents frequently follow our projects and
activities with a great deal of interest, perhaps because they may be
looking for positive effects to give upside impact on the local economy. Alternatively, they may be anxious about negative effects on
their own lives and the surrounding environment. We meet these
expectations with an honest exchange of views and an interest in
constructive proposals. At national level, we engage in discussions
with our stakeholders about wide-ranging issues, such as our contribution to the energy transition and climate change, the future of the
energy market, sustainability in international supply relationships or
a responsible approach to customers.

30 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue

STATEMENT

STAKEHOLDER COUNCIL



Content

The RWE Stakeholder Council was rolled out in 2014. The council has a remit to raise the profile within the company for expectations from
the wider community through regular communication with the Chief Executive Officer of RWE. This body is made up of experts
representing different specialist perspectives and from various regions in Europe.
The Stakeholder Council enables us to hear about opinions from people who we would not normally come into contact with in the course
of our routine business activities.

Professor Dr Justus Haucap,
Chairman of the RWE Stakeholder
Council

Dear Colleagues, Stakeholders and Partners,
The report by the Stakeholder Council is provided below. This is the
first time it will be published in this form in the RWE CR Report. The
RWE Stakeholder Council was established in 2014. The Council is an
external body and it is intended to support the Executive Board of
RWE AG on its journey of steering the company towards being a
more sustainable enterprise. The RWE Stakeholder Council achieves
this by bringing the positions and assessments of stakeholders into
the company and discussing them together with the Chief Executive
Officer Peter Terium and other representatives of the company. The
preparation for the meetings and the organisational implementation
are carried out by the Department of Corporate Responsibility.
Members
Since 2015, the Stakeholder Council has had the following composition: Richard Adams (United Kingdom), Christoph Bals (Germany),
Steven De Bie (Netherlands), Anke Domscheit-Berg (Germany), Stephanie Draper (United Kingdom), Manfred Fischedick (Germany) and
Anna Radwan1 (Poland).

GRI G4-26; G4-27

During the year under review, the Stakeholder Council convened two
meetings, on 18 May and on 16 November. These meetings were
attended by the members of the Council, and in part also by senior
managers from the areas of Strategic Planning, Investor Relations,
Corporate Responsibility, as well as the Chief Executive Officer.
Thematic focuses and recommendations of the Council
The overarching theme discussed by the Council during this year
related to how RWE can strengthen the trust of the community at
large in its activities and its role in the energy transition. The Council
gave a comprehensive review of its position on the future image of
the company developed internally and of the associated strategic
goal of being a credible partner of the energy transition.
In this connection, the Council challenged RWE to reinforce its communicative messages relating to the future vision of the company
and present them even more forcefully. It stressed that RWE needed
to make clear how the company perceives its role in the energy world
of the future in five, ten and 25 years. Focusing on the current situa1 Anna Radwan stepped down from the Council in 2015 at her own request. We are looking to
appoint her replacement in 2016.

31 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue

tion, the Council emphasised that it perceives RWE to be in a field of
tension between the stated ambition of being a credible partner in
the energy transition and the perception in the public domain, which
sees the company defending the status quo of the conventional
energy system. The Council recognises that the expectations of the
community are different in the individual national markets and acknowledges that this makes it difficult to maintain a consistent positioning.
Nevertheless, the Council believes that such a position is possible.
Key factors in the view of the Council are the focuses defined by RWE
for its capital expenditure in future and the lines of business the
company decides to concentrate on. The Council believes that RWE
will only be regarded as credible by the community when its actions
in the future are in harmony with the approach being promoted by
the company as a partner of the energy transition and by making a
contribution to decarbonisation.
In concrete terms, the Council has identified an important line of
business for RWE. This involves integrating the individual components of the energy transition, such as renewable energies, new
storage technologies, electromobility and intelligent grids in the system as a whole, and linking them up together efficiently. RWE would
be able to play this role in its home markets and in other regions as
well. RWE would then be empowered to drive the energy transition

GRI G4-26; G4-27



Content

forward on a large scale. The Council therefore welcomes the initiative adopted by RWE to dedicate more of its ambitions to these areas
of business. This will involve developing new products and services
through partnerships with technology companies and also financial
investors, and promoting them in the marketplace.
The Council has also identified Corporate Responsibility in other challenges such as protecting customers’ data, particularly in the new
digital lines of business, as well as ethical issues associated with projects in new regions.
Outlook
Over the coming year, the Council will focus more intensively on new
lines of business as well as on new growth regions, such as the
MENAT countries. The Council will work together with the Executive
Board to discuss which activities, opportunities and risks are entailed
by the company adopting a sustainable trajectory.
On behalf of the RWE Stakeholder Council
Professor Dr Justus Haucap
Chairman
> RWE Corporate Responsibility Stakeholder Council

32 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue

Stakeholder dialogue by regions
Our stakeholders and their perspectives are nuanced in tune with the
diversity of the regions where we have operations. We have a range
of different formats for conducting the dialogue and an exchange of
ideas with the stakeholder groups at our locations.
Germany
The targets, consequences and challenges of the energy transition
and climate protection continue to be the most important topics in
the communication framework with our stakeholders in Germany.
In 2015, the dominant issues were how the energy industry contributes to achieving the national climate change targets and how the
structural change in the area of lignite production and conventional
energy generation can be managed in a socially and ethically responsible approach. We engaged in an intensive dialogue on this issue
with a large number of stakeholders from politics, business, unions
and members of the public. For example, we are in a dialogue at the
level of elected politicians in local authorities and at political and
specialist conferences in the Rhineland lignite mining region. Alongside issues relating to the energy transition and climate protection,
the key issues were security of supply, job security and perspectives
for the future at the locations. We have also become involved in the
innovation region in the Rhineland lignite mining region which is
intended to support the structural change. Within this framework,
RWE is involved in four out of ten starter projects, for example in
setting up a climate protection settlement, in the project Factor X –
Resource Efficient Building, and in research into uses for the material
lignite (p. 86).
We also discussed the challenges of the energy transition with a view
to further expanding and integrating renewable energies. We regularly hold events on this subject and on similar issues, for example

GRI G4-26



Content

the RWE Talk. In 2015, this was held in Berlin four times and twice in
Brussels. Managing Directors and members of the Executive Board at
RWE swapped information and ideas in discussions about important
current issues with politicians, representatives of other companies,
journalists, representatives of unions, and various special-interest
groups. The discussions focused on a new design for the electricity
market, the future climate protection policy, new opportunities for
applications of electrical energy, and innovations for implementing
the energy transition.
The Customer Council met twice during the course of 2015. At the
first meeting, the members engaged in a debate about the topic of
fuel poverty and initiatives carried out by the company to help customers with acute payment problems (p. 56). At the second meeting
in September, the discussion centred on problems of acceptance for
renewable energies, such as shade levels and the development of
noise cause by wind turbines.
The Energy RWE Round Table (Energiestammtisch) is another dialogue format. In 2015, it was held in Mülheim an der Ruhr and dealt
with the topic of electronic electricity meters.
The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) Niederaußem,
which RWE set up in the Rhineland lignite mining area, continued on
a successful trajectory. The forum offers neighbours, associations
and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage in discussion with
RWE about issues related to electricity generation and power stations.
In 2015, the forum met twice. The agenda focused on topics such as
the impacts of cold air flows on agriculture, perspectives on the use
of CO2 as a material, and the climate protection plan in North RhineWestphalia.

33 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue

The environmental compatibility of new offshore wind farms was also
an important topic, which we discussed with neighbours at our locations. This forum links up those people affected and special-interest
groups, and involves them in the planning process. We inform them
about our projects and at the same time find out about everyone’s
aspirations so we can take them into account.
> RWE Customer Council (German)
> Neighbourhood Forum Niederaußem (German)
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, debate in 2015 focused mainly on the politicisation of the energy industry and the many regulatory changes
made by the new government. Issues relating to security of supply
for electricity were also a focus. The British government established a
capacity market in order to guarantee security of supply. After 2014,
the second capacity auction to ensure security was held in December
2015. RWE successfully took part in this auction. Another issue was
related to the future energy mix. Since hard-coal power stations are
being taken out of the system, there remains the issue of the proportion of the generation mix that will be taken up by gas, nuclear
power and renewable energies in future. The debate in the United
Kingdom also addressed the production of gas from unconventional
extraction sources using fracking technology, issues which RWE is
not involved in. As far as RWE was concerned, the main topic here
was in the area for action Market and Customers, and related to the
operational problems associated with issuing bills. This has caused
a great deal of dissatisfaction in the residential sector (p. 17). The
expansion of wind energy is also provoking debate in the United
Kingdom because the impact of the technology on the natural environment is regarded as problematic.

GRI G4-26



Content

Netherlands
Discussion with our stakeholders in the Netherlands focused on how
we could reduce our CO2 emissions and which methods will effectively enable the Netherlands to achieve its climate protection goals
for the years 2020 and 2050. The Dutch Parliament authorised the
government to review possible scenarios for exiting from generation
of electricity by burning hard coal and to submit a proposal.
At the same time, issues relating to the supply chain for coal and biomass again formed a subject for discussion in 2015. Our stakeholders believe that the upholding of human rights by our suppliers is
extremely relevant in this context. Companies using coal, including
RWE, came to an agreement with the government guaranteeing
increased transparency. A key module for this agreement is the Bettercoal Initiative (p. 71). We were also intensively involved in discussion about sustainability criteria for biomass (p. 72). Subsidies for
biomass with combustion in hard-coal power stations was halted in
April 2015. The extent to which this type of plant will able to attract
subsidies in the future now depends on the final subsidy mechanism
and on the discussion about the future of hard-coal power stations.
The topic of expansion of renewable energies has also become
more important for the stakeholder dialogue in the Netherlands
because some residents living nearby have raised critical objections
to the construction of wind turbines. For example, some local residents have staged a campaign against a planned wind farm in
Meeden. We believe that it is our responsibility there and at other
locations to arrive at mutually acceptable solutions for restructuring
the energy supply through a process of dialogue and maximum
transparency.

34 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Stakeholder dialogue

Central and Eastern Europe
The main topic of debate in the Czech Republic was the issue of
security of supply. The focus of various stakeholder dialogues was on
gas deliveries. Against the background of differences between Russia
and Ukraine, we explained the measures necessary for security of gas
supplies to politicians and the ERU energy regulator, who is responsible for setting energy prices each year in the Czech Republic. Our
role as the biggest gas storage operator in the country was the central focus. The responsible Minister for Industry and Commerce came
to find out the facts on the ground at the beginning of the season
when people start to need more heating.

GRI G4-26



Content

35 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Materiality Analysis



Content

MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
Management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting is based on the relevant issues
that we have determined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach also
corresponds to the current G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which
form the basis for this report.
We adopt two perspectives in our analysis so that we are in a position to evaluate which areas for action and issues are particularly
important for sustainable governance at RWE. Firstly, we record the
expectations of our stakeholders and then we evaluate the issues
from the perspective of the company.
The survey of external expectations in 2015 was based on two
sources of information:
QQ We asked representatives of our most important stakeholders
about which challenges, areas for action and issues they believed
are particularly important for the company from their perspective.
We also asked them about what they expect from RWE. This
information was obtained by carrying out detailed and structured
interviews with 38 representatives of organisations and institutions from civil society in Germany, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic.
QQ These results are then supplemented with information that we
have obtained from other conversations with our stakeholder
(p. 29 ff.). The evaluation of this information was agreed in a joint
discussion with the CR Officers of the RWE companies and it was
incorporated appropriately into the Materiality Analysis.

GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-25; G4-26

We carried out the internal evaluation in a group-wide consultation
process:
QQ Initially, we brought together the key issues and assessed their
relevance for RWE at the level of experts and line managers in the
Group companies.
QQ A second stage involved the departmental managers of RWE AG
and the board members of the Group companies responsible for
CR in a validation process.
Areas for action and issues were prioritised in the internal and external survey. This enabled a set of key areas for action and issues to be
defined. The Materiality Analysis along with the identified issues and
areas for action are used as a platform. We then allocated the material GRI-aspects (p. 5 ff.).
Presentation of the key issues
As in earlier reports, the vertical axis of the presentation in the
Materiality Analysis represents the expectations of stakeholders.
Conversely, our approach in relation to the horizontal axis has
returned to the presentation of the perspective from 2013.
This maps the relevance of the areas for action in relation to

36 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Materiality Analysis



our business, while in 2014 we plotted the impacts of the RWE Group
on the community. Our most relevant areas for action are therefore
characterised by the high expectations of our stakeholders in combination with the high level of relevance for the corporate development of RWE.

Content

The following matrix sets out the assessed importance of our areas
for action which were each evaluated with the categories “moderate”, “high” and “very high”. The matrix bundles differing perspectives at Group level. The assessments of issues in the regions may
therefore differ from the individual Group areas. We attribute
above-average importance to all the issues listed in the Materiality
Matrix for the sustainable alignment of the RWE Group. The contents

Materiality Analysis 2015

very high

CP

SC
I

Expectations of Stakeholders

CE

high

EB

MC

EM

EE

SS
OH

moderate

high

very high

Relevance for RWE
CP Climate Protection EE Energy Efficiency EB Environmental Protection and Biodiversity

CE Community Engagement MC Market and Customers EM Employees

SC Supply Chain OH Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management SS Security of Supply

GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21

I

Innovation

37 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Materiality Analysis

of this report were defined in accordance with the results of the
Materiality Analysis. We provide a more extensive presentation of the
three most important areas for action – Climate Protection, Market
and Customers, and Innovation – in this report (p. 41, 59 and p. 83).
Developments in the CR areas for action
Climate Protection:
As far as our stakeholders are concerned, climate protection continues to remain the most important challenge for RWE. The majority of
stakeholders regard the expansion of renewable energies as the most
important instrument for low-carbon generation of electricity. Stakeholders also see a significant need to take action in this area in the
future. In turn, RWE continues to consider climate protection as the
most important area for action in order to achieve a more sustainable
alignment of our actions. The political discussions and decisions on
climate protection at global, national and regional level demonstrate
the extent to which this topic impacts on the regulatory and social
organisational framework of RWE. Investors have also addressed the
issue with us in terms of the issue of decarbonisation.
Innovation:
This area for action has gained massively in importance in the context of the energy transition. Innovations are becoming increasingly
important for us so that we can play a role in structuring changes like
integration of renewable energies and digitisation of the energy
industry. The expectations of our stakeholders have also risen in this
area. This is especially the case in the management of the increasingly digital energy system which they perceive to be an important
topic. At the same time, stakeholders are demanding innovative solutions in order to structure the expansion of renewable energies in an
affordable way and to make it environmentally compatible. Ulti-

GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-27



Content

mately, innovations are necessary in order to make conventional electricity generation, which is indispensable for the foreseeable future,
more flexible and lower emission.
Market and Customers:
Alongside Climate Protection and Innovation, our stakeholders
attribute a great deal of importance to this area for action in regard
to the sustainable development of RWE. They believe that it is important for us to offer new products and service packages, which will
empower our customers to have better control of their energy consumption in a digitised energy world. Simultaneously, our stakeholders perceive new challenges relating to adopting a responsible
approach to dealing with customer data, and protection against data
being accessed by unauthorised persons. It is also extremely important for RWE as a company to be successful in new markets and to
play a role in structuring the supply of energy in a digitised energy
world. This needs to be achieved with high standards of data security
and protection of customer data.
Energy Efficiency:
This area for action relates to energy savings in our company. A high
level of efficiency for energy use at our power plants is the most
important lever here from an external and internal perspective.
Environmental Protection and Biodiversity:
Protecting the environment is very important to our stakeholders. At
the same time, we have received feedback from the majority of stakeholders indicating that they consider the approach of RWE towards
the handling of emissions, waste and water management to be of a
high order. They also perceive it as being organised within the context of an ordered process. Stakeholders see a special need for information on the issue of nuclear waste (p. 52) and they regard this as a

38 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Materiality Analysis

major challenge. We are working intensively on the topic of biodiversity, particularly in the management of opencast mines and in the
expansion of wind energy. The expectations of our stakeholders in
these areas relate to solutions for protecting biological diversity at
existing and new locations.
Community Engagement:
Our stakeholders want us to engage proactively at our locations in
dialogue with civil society and to take account of their concerns in
our corporate policy. At the same time, they want us to provide
transparent reporting on our donation and sponsorship activities.
Employees:
The pressure on costs resulting from the energy transition continues
to exert an impact on our personnel policy and presents us with
major challenges in the area for action of Employees. We consider
our main task to be the adaptation of our human resource structure
to the difficult new framework conditions of the energy economy and
at the same time increase diversity within the workforce. Our stakeholders share this perspective. They also expect us to give our
employees clearly-defined perspectives and offer them opportunities
for personal development. This topic is also a top priority within the
company for the development of the business with the objective of
reinforcing the motivation and expertise of all the employees so that
they are encouraged to implement the energy transition.
Supply Chain:
A sustainable structure for the supply chain continues to be an
important area for action at RWE. Our stakeholders attribute major
responsibility to us in this area and most importantly in the supply

GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-27



Content

chain for hard coal. We are working intensively together with other
European suppliers within the Bettercoal sector initiative in order to
achieve an impact in this area (p. 71). Another factor motivating our
cooperation is that we can only secure our access to these materials
at commercially viable prices if the supply chain has a sustainable
structure.
Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management:
Occupational safety is an indispensable component of our corporate
culture which is manifested in our many reference standards and initiatives (p. 76 ff.). We meet the demands of our stakeholders in this
area for action. On an international sector comparison, these requirements are based on a high level of attainment in occupational safety
and healthcare management. Our stakeholders have highlighted
stress management as a particularly important issue here. Dealing
appropriately with stress is also important to us because the company
is currently undergoing a process of change which demands a very
high level of commitment from our employees.
Security of Supply:
In 2015, this area for action continued to have a high level of importance, in particular for our stakeholders in Germany and the Czech
Republic. A primary focus of stakeholders is the ongoing development of our distribution grids, and they consider the transition
towards intelligent and simultaneously stable grids to be absolutely
essential. A platform of adequate availability for power-plant capacity is also regarded as important so that we can cover the supply
requirement, for example in the phases when renewable energies
generate less electricity due to the weather conditions.

39 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives



Content

OVERVIEW OF OUR TEN AREAS FOR ACTION AND OUR CR OBJECTIVES
We have converted our CR Strategy into ten concrete areas for action – in an intensive dialogue with
our stakeholders. We have defined concrete, quantifiable targets in each area for action and made
them a constituent element in the compensation package for our Executive Board.

Area for action

Target

KPI

Target value

Due1

Status at the end of 2015

Climate
Protection

We are committed to significantly reducing the CO2 intensity of our power plant
portfolio.

CO2 emissions in metric
tons (mt) per megawatt
hour of electricity generated (mt CO2/MWh)

0.62 mt CO2/MWh

2020

0.708 mt CO2/MWh

Energy Efficiency

We are committed to increasing our own
energy efficiency.

Increase in energy
efficiency in %

RWE power
plants2: 40.3%3

2018

Average efficiency of
energy use 40.2%

Environmental
Protection and
Biodiversity

We are committed to operating our plants
safely and in compliance with licensing
regulations at all times.

Compliance with licensing requirements in %

100% compliance

2018

No significant breaches
of environmental protection laws and licensing
regulations

Group-wide environmental management coverage in %

100% coverage

2018

100% environmental
management coverage

We are committed to 100% implementation of our environmental management
system to ensure that our plants and
grids are operated in 100% compliance
with legal requirements at all times.
Community
Engagement

We are committed to strengthening our
regional reputation by making efficient
use of resources.

Reputation Index

Reputation Index
of at least 59.03

2018

Reputation Index of 58.4

Market and
Customers

We are committed to maintaining satisfied
and hence loyal customers.

Customer Loyalty Index

Customer Loyalty
Index of at least 773

2018

Customer Loyalty Index
of 76

Target attainment

40 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Area for action

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives



Target

KPI

Target value

Due1

Status at the end of 2015

We are committed to ongoing motivation
of our managers and employees, and to
achieving a necessary reduction in the
number of jobs through a responsible
and ethical approach.

Demography Index (DEX)

Demography Index
of at least 84

2018

Demography Index
of 82.5

Motivation Index

Motivation Index
of 72.2

2017

Motivation Index
of 72.4

Supply Chain

We are committed to avoiding reputational risks by ensuring compliance with
environmental and social standards in our
supply chain.

Securing environmental
and social standards in
all procurement areas
in %

100% of the purchasing volume3

2018

Securing standards in
supply management
99.4%

Occupational
Safety and
Healthcare
Management

We are committed to ensuring that all our
own and our subcontractors’ employees
return home just as healthy at the end of
the day as they were when they arrived
for work.

Number of accidents
leading to the loss of one
person day per 1 million
working hours LTIF4

LTIF of max. 1.8
including partner
companies
(subcontractors)3,4

2018

LTIF (own staff and partner
companies (subcontractors)): 2.2

Security of
Supply

We are committed to supplying our
customers with the electricity they need
at all times.

Average grid outage
SAIDI < 15 min/
durations in min. per year Customer (only
and customer (System
Germany)3
Average Interruption
Duration Index, SAIDI)

2018

SAIDI (2014): 13.4 min./
customer (only Germany)

Innovation

We are committed to ensuring the
availability of the best solutions for our
purposes in our core processes through
innovations.

Degree of coverage and
communication of strategically relevant R&D
issues in %

2018

Processing and communication of strategically relevant R&D issues, degree
of coverage 100%

Employees

1 We adjusted our dates for target attainment in 2015 to ensure compatibility with the compensation of the Executive Board.
2 Average efficiency of energy use.
3 We adjusted our target values in 2015 to ensure compatibility with the compensation of the Executive Board.
4 LTIF=X/1,000,000 h; including reports known to us from partner companies (subcontractors).

At least 98%

Content

Target attainment

41 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection



Content

CLIMATE PROTECTION
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising the impacts of climate
change are important targets for energy policy in Europe. As one of the biggest
European energy utilities, we want to make a contribution to this objective.

Since spring 2014 RWE is erecting the onshore
wind farm Zuidwester at the Ijsselmeer. It is
part of the wind farm Noordoostpolder – with
429 MW of installed output being one of the
most ambitious onshore projects in Europe.

0.71
mt CO2/MWh
emissions

Reduction
in the specific
CO2 emissions to

0.62

mt CO2/MWh by 2020

More than €
CO2 reduction by

4.4
million mt
in 2014

Around

3,070

MW of wind power
in operation

6.7

billion of capital
expenditure on
renewable energies
over eight years

42 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection



Content

The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is an important target in
European energy policy and in the individual national energy policies. We also intend to make a contribution to this target, primarily
by expanding renewable energies and by reducing the specific CO2
emissions from our lignite-fired, hard-coal and gas-fired power stations. At the same time, we are offering our customers energy efficiency products and advice which allow them to bring down the
amount of electricity and the heat that they consume, and as a result
also reduce corresponding CO2 emissions (p. 61 ff.).

around 15% in the Rhineland lignite mining area compared with
today by 2020. Depending on the further expansion of renewable
energies, an additional fall in the area of conventional energy generation is anticipated. The associated further reduction of full-load
hours will combine with the depletion of lignite supplies at the Inden
opencast mine, and the consequent decommissioning of the Weisweiler power plant will lead to further CO2 reductions. Overall, the
CO2 emissions from lignite will therefore be reduced by 40% to 50%
compared with the present day by 2030.

Challenge
According to the assessment by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), climate change can modify the living conditions
of people and the environment across the world. It can also lead to
high macroeconomic costs. The resolutions passed by the Paris Climate Conference (COP 21) have jointly committed all the counties
to limiting the global temperature increase to significantly below 2
degrees Celsius compared with the preindustrial level. RWE welcomes the climate change treaty. A broadly-based international consensus is the only way of bringing about genuine structural change
throughout the world to create a more sustainable economic model.

During the period running up to 2030, electricity generation from lignite-fired power stations will be even more strongly oriented towards
the further expansion of renewable energies and the fluctuating feedin that results. The focus will then be on flexibility and the provision of
backup capacities. In line with this development, the CO2 emissions
will be further reduced. During the phase-out period of the Garzweiler
and Hambach opencast mines towards the middle of the century, the
volumes of CO2 will gradually continue to decrease until the extraction
of lignite comes to an end.

The ambition of the European Union is to achieve a 40% reduction in
the emission of greenhouse gases by 2030 compared with the baseline year of 1990. Germany has already made a commitment to this
target for 2020. As a major energy utility and Europe’s biggest single
emitter of CO2, RWE intends to make a substantial contribution and
support these targets. For example, our plans for generating electricity from lignite in the Rhineland lignite mining area are in harmony
with national and European climate-protection targets. The switch to
security standby (p. 44) will enable us to achieve a CO2 reduction of

RWE is participating in the debate going on in the public domain and
climate protection is also playing an important role here. Our stakeholders, including environmental organisations, customers and politicians, regard the reduction of CO2 as the biggest challenge for RWE in
order to become more sustainable (p. 37).
Motivation and targets
RWE supports the German and European climate targets of cutting
the emission of greenhouse gases by at least 80% by 2050. The
reduction of in-house CO2 emissions is an absolute priority for us. We
have therefore defined a concrete target. By 2020, we want to have

43 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection

reduced our specific CO2 emissions from the current level of 0.71 mt
for each megawatt hour (MWh) generated to 0.62 mt/MWh. By
decreasing the CO2 intensity of our power plant portfolio, we meet
our obligations of social responsibility while at the same time bringing down the financial risks arising from the purchase of CO2 certifi-

Specific and absolute CO2 emissions
Unit

2010

2011

2012

20131

2014

2015

Specific CO2 emissions

mt/MWh

0.732

0.787

0.792

0.751

0.745

0.708

Scope 1 emissions2

million mt

167.1

163.8

181.7

165.8

156.6

152.3

3

Scope 2 emissions

million mt

3.1

2.4

1.9

1.5

1.4

1.3

Scope 3 emissions4

million mt

135.7

121.0

105.2

105.0

90.8

93.9

1

1 Calculated on the basis of electricity production, without emissions from biogenic fuels.
2 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transmission & electricity generation).
3 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties.
4	Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 or Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured
from third parties, from the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, from the production and from the
consumption of gas sold to customers.

Important new conventional power plants since 2013

Installed
capacity in
MW

Key capital
expenditure
in € billion

Proportion
of RWE in %

Efficiency
in %

Start of
commercial
operation

D

Hamm

Hard coal

764

2.4

100

46

2013

NL

Eemshaven

Hard coal
and
biomass1

1,554

>2

100

46

2015

TR

Denizli

Gas

787

0.5

70

57

2013

1	No biomass is currently used at the Eemshaven site. No decision was taken yet in 2015 about the future use of biomass.



Content

cates. During the year under review, we succeeded in reducing our
specific CO2 emissions by around 5%. In absolute terms, we reduced
the CO2 emissions from our power plants by some 3% from 155.2
million mt in 2014 to 150.8 million mt in 2015.
Monitoring and performance measurement
We use the CO2 emissions for each megawatt hour of electricity
generated as the KPI in order to measure our target attainment.
Advances and successes are used in the assessment of the long-term
variable compensation for the Executive Board of RWE AG.
The financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected in
our risk management. We reduce these risks by concluding appropriate hedging transactions. At the same time as we sell a specific
amount of electricity in the futures market, we procure the combustion fuel required and purchase any necessary emission certificates.
Renewal of our power plants
Since 2006, we have replaced more than 20% of our conventional
capacities with advanced, highly efficient plants. We have spent a
total of more than € 12 billion in the biggest programme of capital
expenditure throughout the history of RWE. In May and July of 2015,
the two units at the Eemshaven location in the Netherlands started
up commercial operation. This is one of the most advanced hard-coal
power stations in the world. Apart from these newbuilds, we also
modernised existing power plants in 2015, for example the gas turbines in Pembroke and Staythorpe, and unit 9 at the Aberthaw power
plant (all in the United Kingdom). The latter was upgraded with low
NOX burners in the course of overhauls. This has enabled us to
improve efficiency in electricity generation, reduce the consumption
of resources for each unit of energy generated and therefore also
bring down the emissions of greenhouse gases.

44 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection

Security standby for lignite-fired power stations
At the beginning of November, the German Federal Cabinet passed
a resolution on a draft bill for proposed legislation relating to the
limited period of security standby and subsequent shutdown of lignite-fired power stations which had been adopted in the previous
July. The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi)
had reached agreement on details regarding this move with RWE
and the energy companies MIBRAG and Vatenfall. The legislation
envisages that plants with a total of 2.7 GW generating capacity
will be gradually phased out of the market from 2016. Each of the
plants will then be used to guarantee standby readiness for supply
of electricity over a period of four years. The plants will then be
finally shut down. Their operators will receive remuneration for
maintaining security standby. These measures are primarily intended
to ensure that Germany achieves its emission reduction target for
2020. RWE will transfer five lignite-fired power station units of
300 MW each to security standby. These include two units each

Important new power plants for generating electricity from renewable energies

Installed
capacity
in MW

Key capital
expenditure
in € billion

Proportion
of RWE in %

Full-load
hours1

Start of
commercial
operation

D

Nordsee Ost

Offshore
wind

295

1

100

3,688

2015

UK

Gwynt y Môr

Offshore
wind

576

2.8

50

3,329

2015

D

Königs­hovener
Heights

Onshore
wind

67

0.11

51

3,000

2015

1 Planned full-load hours.



Content

at Frimmersdorf (1 October 2017), Niederaußen (1 October 2018),
and one unit at Neurath (1 October 2019). As a result, the gross CO2
emissions will decline by around 12.3 million mt CO2.
Capital expenditure on renewable energies
The expansion of renewable energies is a very important lever for
making our electricity generation more climate-friendly. In 2015, we
increased our installed output of renewable energies from 3,677 MW
to 4,146 MW. The proportion of renewable energies in installed output has therefore risen from 7.5% to 9%. At the same time, we are
pursuing the objective of driving forward growth in new regions and
with different technologies (p. 46).
Offshore wind power
Today, RWE already ranks among the five leading offshore wind-farm
operators in Europe with around 1,000 MW of installed output. In 2015,
two big offshore wind farms run by RWE started operating. In the German section of the North Sea, the Nordsee Ost wind farm was commissioned and fully operational with an output of 295 MW. This renewable
facility supplies around 320,000 households with electricity and consequently avoids the emission of 850,000 mt of CO2 each year. The Gwynt
y Môr wind farm located off the Welsh coast was also brought fully on
stream. It is the second biggest offshore wind farm in the world with a
capacity of 576 MW. RWE has joined forces with Northland Power Inc.
and is currently constructing the German Nordsee Ost offshore wind
farm project with 332 MW of installed output. Another project is the
British Galloper offshore wind farm with 336 MW of installed output. We
are planning this wind farm together with our partners UK Green Investment Bank, Siemens Financial Services and Macquarie Capital.

45 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection

Onshore wind power
RWE is also driving forward the expansion of onshore wind energy.
We started operating the Königshoven Heights wind farm with a total
output of 67 MW located in the Rhineland lignite mining area. During
the year under review, RWE also erected two additional wind farms in
Poland with a total output of 45 MW and brought them on stream.
This brings our installed output for onshore wind farms to 2,145 MW.
RWE is also building seven wind farms in four European countries.
This includes the Dutch Zuidwester project with 90 MW of installed
output, which is comprised of twelve of the world’s biggest onshore
wind turbines with each generating 7.5 MW. The wind farm is scheduled to come on stream in 2017.



Content

Other renewable energies
Although the focus of activities is in the area of wind energy, RWE
also operates plants for generating energy from hydropower, biomass and biogas, as well as solar energy. Following the sale of twelve
German power plants, RWE still has 784 MW of installed output for
generating electricity from run-of-river plants. The installed output
of biogas plants is 16 MW and the output for biomass plants is
253 MW.
In October 2015, RWE opened the biggest photovoltaic park in Hungary. The facility contains 72,480 solar modules with a total output
of 16 MW and it was constructed over the ash dump of the power
plant in Mátra. RWE is responsible for operating a total of 21 MW
of photovoltaic and solar capacity.

46 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Climate Protection

INTERVIEW

CONTINUOUS EXPANSION OF RENEWABLE ENERGIES



Content

Renewable energies are at the centre of the energy transition. What overall assessment can be reached for 2015 and how will this impact
on the strategy for the near future? Our editorial team asked Dr Hans Bünting, the Chairman of the Executive Board of RWE Innogy GmbH,
for his view.
Dr Bünting, are you on track with renewable energies?
BÜNTING: Most certainly! In 2015, the operating result of RWE Innogy
increased to more than € 400 million and this represents an increase
of more than two-fold. We are one of the biggest providers of offshore wind energy in Europe with around 1,000 MW of installed output. This also applies to the onshore sector. There we currently have
capacity of around 2,000 MW across Europe. And our aim is to continue growing.
Dr Hans Bünting,
Chairman of the Executive Board
of RWE Innogy GmbH

The interview was conducted by
Dr Matthias Kussin,
RWE Corporate Responsibility

What should be the profile of this growth trajectory?
BÜNTING: We are adopting a four-track approach. Our objectives are
to increase our shares in projects and we are open to acquisitions.
We want to grow organically in the area of onshore and offshore
wind power, develop new markets and expand our portfolio with
major photovoltaic projects. The current status is that € one billion
have been earmarked for this capital expenditure on these projects
from 2015 to 2017.

What are you planning to do in concrete terms?
BÜNTING: Last year, we looked at a lot of different markets with the
focus on onshore wind power while also reviewing the possibilities
for photovoltaic systems. This analysis revealed that the Middle East,
North Africa and Turkey, alongside Ireland and the USA are extremely
promising markets. We are going to examine these options more
carefully.
Why are these regions of particular interest?
BÜNTING: In the MENAT region (Middle East, North Africa and Turkey),
there is an optimum relationship between hours of sunshine and
major business opportunities as a result of the growing demand for
energy. This makes these countries very attractive for photovoltaic
systems. Turkey, Ireland and the USA are also particularly favourable
for wind energy projects because of the very promising wind locations.

47 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency

ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Energy efficiency is essential for achieving the European climate protection
targets. The reduction of CO2 emissions at our generating plants is the
central focus of our efficiency measures. We are modernising our power
plants and making use of innovative technologies to achieve this purpose.

RWE is continuously working on improving
the efficiency of our power plant portfolio. For
example at the Eemshaven location: In 2015
one of the most advanced hard-coal power
stations in the world started up commercial
operation there.

40.2%
efficiency of energy
use at our power
plants in 2015

New challenges as
a result of change
in the method of
operation for
power plants

EU regulations on
energy efficiency
implemented
throughout the Group

29%

improvement in energy
efficiency with
upgraded buildings

12%

fuel saving with
new vehicles



Content

48 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency

Challenge
The European climate-protection targets can only be achieved with a
high level of energy efficiency. Electricity and heat producers are able
to make particular contributions to this ambition. We are reducing
our CO2 emissions per unit of electricity or heat generated by using
more efficient power plants while at the same time bringing down
our consumption of resources.
Motivation and targets
We want to drive energy efficiency forward in our power plant portfolio and in other company activities. This makes business and environmental sense. High levels for efficiency of energy use enable us to
reduce our combustion fuel costs and cut our CO2 emissions for each

Efficiency of energy use for our power plants by country and energy source
in %

47

48

20
0
Lignite
Germany

United Kingdom

Content

converted unit of energy. This enables us to bring down our expenditure on CO2 certificates as well. We have defined our goal as increasing the average efficiency of energy use for our power plant portfolio
to at least 40.3% by 2018. Achieving this goal will be more demanding in future because the role of our power plants is undergoing partial change. They are no longer operating round the clock but instead
these power plants are adjusting their feed-in to take account of the
fluctuating supply of renewable energies.
Aside from rationalising the operation of power plants, we are reducing the amount of energy expended on our vehicle fleet, in our real
estate portfolio and for other areas of the company, such as opencast lignite mines and other production facilities. There are also big
potential opportunities for saving energy with our customers. This is
why we are offering consumers comprehensive energy service packages and consultation for the improvement of their energy efficiency
(p. 61 ff.).
Monitoring and performance measurement
In the context of our CR management, the average efficiency of
energy use for our power plants is the key performance indicator for
calculating our energy efficiency. This indicator shows how much primary energy we use for each kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity produced or heat generated.

37

36

40

38

45

55

60

54

73

80

67

100



Hard coal
Netherlands

Gas

Gas CHP

Waste

Development in energy efficiency
We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production of electricity mainly by modernising our conventional power plant portfolio.
In 2015, one of the most advanced hard-coal power stations in the
world with an output of 1,554 MW started up commercial operation
at the Eemshaven location in the Netherlands in 2015.

49 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Energy Efficiency

We were able to keep our efficiency almost constant at 40.2% compared with 2014 (40.4%). A negative impact was exerted as a result
of lower heat generation, declining use of our gas-fired power stations and increased part-load operation. This change in the method
of operation comes as a result of the major expansion of renewable
energies, which have priority for feed-in of electricity to the grid. This
development is at the expense of efficiencies for conventional power
plants, which are increasingly being used in unfavourable operating
states. This is because they generate electricity at times when renewable energies are unable to supply power.
In future, we will achieve additional efficiency increases primarily by
decommissioning older power plants. When building new power production plants, we will concentrate on the expansion of renewable
energies in future. Overall, our newly installed output here in 2015
amounts to 474 MW of renewable energies, other plants with a total
capacity of 246.6 MW are currently being constructed.
Furthermore, we are retaining the option of building another lignitefired power station “Optimised Unit Plus” (BoAplus) located at our
Niederaußem site. This will achieve an efficiency of more than 45%
and would replace four old power stations with an output of 300 MW
each operating at a lower level of efficiency.
If the energy savings made in our real estate portfolio and vehicle
fleet are set against the total footprint of our Group, they only make
up a small proportion. Nevertheless, these efforts highlight the credibility of our actions and also contribute to raising the awareness of
our employees for energy and environmental issues.



Content

A continuous process of modernisation enabled us to increase the
energy efficiency in our real estate portfolio during the course of
2015 – by a total of 29% for the refurbished buildings. Measures
such as upgrades for roofs and modernisation of heating systems
contributed to this improvement.
During the year under review, we replaced 520 older vehicles in our
vehicle fleet by 560 new vehicles which caused on average 12%
fewer CO2 emissions per kilometre. We have also included five electric cars in the vehicle fleet which are available to all our employees
in Essen and Dortmund.
Expanded energy management system
We have expanded certification in conformity with ISO 50001 in the
sectors opencast mining, lignite and hard coal/gas to include nuclear
energy, hydropower and refinement.
In 2015 all RWE companies with more than 250 employees were
audited on energy efficiency by an external service provider. We have
therefore promptly complied with the regulations implemented
under German legislation and defined in the Energy Efficiency Directive of the European Union. The Eemshaven hard-coal power station
located in the Netherlands constitutes an exception. The audit there
will only take place in 2016 because commercial operation was only
started up in 2015. We have obtained a special licence for this.
The ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary was the first energy company to
receive a certificate in compliance with ISO 50001 there.

50 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity



Content

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BIODIVERSITY
We want to avoid any impacts on the environment that are associated with
our business activity or if this is not possible minimise the effects as much as
possible. That is why RWE has an effective environmental management system in place. We consistently reduce waste and we are committed to protecting and reinstating ecosystems.

0

major
environmental
incidents

Expenditure on
environmental
protection amounting
to €

2

billion

88%

of all run-of-river
power stations
equipped with fish
ladders

100%

coverage by an
environmental
management system

22,950

hectares of recultivated
land at opencast mines
in the Rhineland lignite
mining area

With its approach on recultivation RWE has built up
a reputation: Extensive lakes, ponds and wetland
biotopes came into being in the former extraction
sites of the Rhineland lignite mining area. They provide new habitats to numberous endangered animal
and plant species.

51 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity

Challenge
The operation of conventional power stations and plants for generating electricity from renewable energies, the production of lignite and
the operation of our distribution grids inevitably result in our impacting on natural ecosystems. Pollutants are released during the production of electricity and heat in our power plants or the operation of
our opencast mines and they can lead to negative impacts on people
and the environment. We are therefore committed to ensuring air
pollution control and to conserving natural resources. This applies in
particular to the use of water. We compensate the use of land for our
opencast mining activities by recultivating the extraction sites. This
approach enables us to return usable areas of land to agriculture and
for other use while also creating space for nature conservation where
we can strategically foster biological diversity.
Motivation and targets
We want to avoid direct and indirect interventions in ecosystems
through our activities. If this is not feasible, our aim is to keep the
impact to a minimum. As far as possible, we mitigate unavoidable or
irreversible negative consequences with adequate nature conservation measures. This means that we create ecosystems with at least
the same functional capability as before the intervention and as a
result frequently go beyond the statutory requirements. We carry out
a major share of our activities in the area of environmental protection on the basis of the licensing regulations that we have to comply
with when we construct and operate our plants. We are therefore
continuously driving forward our group-wide coverage of RWE’s
activities by our environmental management system. Furthermore,
we are also committed to steadily promoting and improving the
elimination or reduction of environmental impacts. At the same
time, we are regularly in dialogue with our stakeholders, in order
to strengthen acceptance for our activities (p. 29).



Content

Monitoring and performance measurement
We are continuously carrying out analyses and evaluations of environmental issues in order to assess their relevance for the RWE
Group. The key performance indicator in the area of environmental
protection is compliance with the licensing regulations for the installation and operation of our plants and facilities. Our compliance with
such systems is ensured with regular on-site checks. The percentage
coverage by our environmental management system provides us with
a further key performance indicator.
All RWE companies have an obligation to act in compliance with our
Group Directive on Environmental Management and set up a dedicated environmental management system in conformity with the
requirements of the ISO 14001 international standard. Compliance
with this standard is ensured by annual audits. During the course of
2015, group-wide expenditure on environmental protection
amounted to € 2 billion.
During the year under review, there were no major incidents at the
plants of the RWE Group that resulted in significant impacts relevant
to the environment. Compliance with all licensing regulations was
consistently ensured. In 2015, 20 notifiable events at notification
level 0 were registered for our nuclear power stations. There were
14 notifiable events in the previous year. Our fossil-fired power
stations were operated in 2015 without any major disturbances.
Pollutant emissions and waste
Upgrading our power plant portfolio with modern burner technologies and optimised separation processes enable us to reduce the
emissions of pollutants which are released during the production
of electricity and heat at our power plants. One example of this is
mercury, where the advanced technologies used today for flue-gas

52 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity

Development of specific pollutant emissions
Unit

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

20151

Specific NOX emissions

g/kWh

0.58

0.60

0.69

0.68

0.60

0.54

Specific SO2 emissions

g/kWh

0.29

0.31

0.40

0.37

0.33

0.25

Specific particulate emissions

g/kWh

0.019

0.021

0.025

0.022

0.020

0.017

1	From 2015 incl. power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements.

scrubbing remove up to 90% of this pollutant with pure coal com­
bustion. At the Coal Innovation Centre in the Rhineland lignite mining area, we are currently working on improved procedures for the
removal of mercury, for example by adding activated coke to flue gas.
The results of test trials to date lead to the expectation of further
improved separation of mercury. However, further, tests still need
to be carried out. There is not currently a standard marketable technology that could be used directly in our plants to reduce mercury
transmissions.
However, the Federal Environment Ministry has not identified any
adverse readings when measurements have been taken – even in
the environment of coal-fired power stations. The level of pollution
measured in the ambient air outside, in other words the amount of
pollutants which impact on people and nature are in the range
between 1 and 2 billionths of a gram (ng) per standard cubic metre
of air (ng/Nm³). In Bergheim, this figure is actually significantly less
at 0.04 ng/Nm³. The critical value for outside air is 50 billionths of a
gram per Nm³. This value describes the concentration of a substance
in the air which does not result in any health impairment when a single substance is analysed, if an individual is exposed to this for their
entire life.



Content

Avoid, recovery, disposal – this is the principle underlying our waste
management. We are continually reducing the amount of waste which
cannot be recycled for further downstream application. Accordingly,
all residual waste is disposed of in compliance with statutory regulations.
This also applies to residual materials and waste from our nuclear
power stations which occur while they are being operated as well as
when the power plants are decommissioned. Only a small part of the
entire mass of the nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radioactive materials when they are operational. The greatest proportion
of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of decontamination measures so that it can be released by the government authorities and then returned to the normal cycle of materials. The remaining residue – only around 3% of the total mass of a nuclear power
station – is destined for disposal in a final repository for radioactive
waste. This material primarily includes components near the core of
the reactor. Until the material is consigned under statutory regulations to a final repository operated by the government, these waste

Expenditure on environmental protection 2015
in € million
Air pollution control
Nature conservation and protection of the landscape

228
71

Water protection

168

Waste disposal

273

Noise abatement

9.5

Polluted sites, soil contamination

8

Climate protection

1,246

Total

2,002

53 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Environmental Protection and Biodiversity

materials, such as spent fuel rods, are kept at an intermediate
storage facility under the supervision of the nuclear regulatory
authorities.
Water use
A top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts minimum impact on natural resources when we supply our thermal power
plants with cooling water. We also provide the best protection for
aquatic habitats and other ecosystems linked with such habitats
against adverse effects. Environmental impacts are prevented by
methods such as recycling water, more intensive use of pumped
water from opencast mines and using collected rainwater, as well as
recovering and re-using process water from operations. Our internal
wastewater treatment and continuous monitoring of the process
ensure that potential contamination is eliminated. We provide verifiable compliance with the statutory threshold values. This enables us
to avoid negative impacts on nature and human health.
Protection and promotion of biodiversity
In 2015, we adopted a Biodiversity Policy for the Group. This guideline establishes how RWE intends to protect and promote biodiversity stewardship as the company carries out its business activities.
We protect species diversity by strategic measures if natural habitats
are destroyed by our activities. These include fish ladders at run-ofriver power stations and the use of technical measures to protect
marine species at offshore wind farms. The same approach continues
as we reinstate substitute habitats or facilitate the repopulation of
existing habitats. We also contribute to the promotion of biodiversity
through the recultivation of mining areas.



Content

A green bridge was constructed over the German A 61 highway at a
cost of € 4 million. The structure is part of the species protection
concept for the Hambach opencast mine and helps to provide an
integrated network of habitats outside the mining excavation area.
The main reason for erecting the green bridge was as a crossing aid
for the bats from Hambach Forest. It provides a route for these particularly shy animals to cross the motorway in the protected landscapes and nature conservation areas of the Erftal Valley. Bats make
use of ultrasound waves for purposes of orientation and they need
trees and bushes growing more closely together than is the case in a
motorway corridor so that they can utilise this echolocation system
effectively. The bridge helps the animals to negotiate the space without any danger. Naturally, other wild animals also benefit from the
bridge.
Our cooperation with the International Union for Conservation of
Nature (IUCN) was based on the topic of biodiversity management in
the context of recultivation of opencast mining extraction areas and
this was successfully completed in the summer of 2015. The final
report compiled by the IUCN describes exemplary approaches by our
biodiversity management and also puts forward proposals for
improvement.
During the course of 2015, we continued our activities for the protection of birds in Hungary. In the Bükk National Park, almost 9,000
electricity masts were insulated and some of them were replaced by
underground cables. The project was financed by capital expenditure
of € 4.2 million. Alongside sponsorship provided by the Environmental Fund, ÉMÁSZ also made a contribution of € 0.86 million.
> RWE Biodiversity Policy
> IUCN final report

54 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement



Content

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Our role is to be the credible partner at our locations and at national level.
We are therefore committed to taking action in many different ways for
the benefit of the community. This ranges from providing support for lowincome households, through our in-house education initiatives on the topics
of energy and technology, to promotion of volunteering engagement by
our employees.

Reputation Index
of

58.4
points

RWE Foundation for
Energy and the
Community sponsors
projects with €

1.7
million

Teaching about energy
in 148 schools with

7,233
school children

23.9%

of employees volunteer
with RWE Companius

Donations amounting
to €

3.5

million handed over

By RWE Companius RWE is supporting
employees in helping others since
2007. In many voluntary projects they
also take care of those people who
had to flee their home countries.

55 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement

Challenge
We carry out key functions for energy supply and the employment
market with our products and services, our capital expenditure, and
also as an employer. Our mission is to ensure a secure supply of electricity and gas at all times. Part of that mission is also to provide
jobs. The activities we pursue are dependent on trust and acceptance at international, national, regional and local level, particularly in
the districts surrounding our sites. RWE seeks dialogue in order to
create trust. We communicate with groups impacted by the activities
of our company or groups carrying out activities influencing our business operations. We want to know about their positions and respond
to their concerns in an appropriate way (p. 29).

Distribution of value added in 2015 (in € million)

-170 Net income
5 Dividend payment to shareholders1

4,803 To employees (wages,
salaries, social security contributions)

454 To other shareholders

3,454 To lenders

Value added
2015:
11,391 € million

2,845 To the government
(taxes and deductions)

1 Dividend proposal for the business year 2015 of RWE AG, subject to a resolution being passed by the Annual
General Meeting on 20 April 2016. Dividend of € 0 per common share, dividend of € 0.13 per preference share.



Content

Motivation and targets
The challenges of the energy transition can only be solved at the
level of society as a whole. We are the credible partner for this challenge and we want to enhance trust in our company within our
regional and local environment, as well as within society overall. That
is why we promote social developments through initiatives in social,
environmental and cultural spheres, with volunteering engagement
by RWE employees, by neighbourhood support and through financial
assistance. We want to continue strengthening our acceptance in this
way and create a profile that is distinct from our competitors.
Monitoring and performance measurement
We want to use the resources available effectively and in conformity
with our compliance objectives. We have defined the rules for the
allocation of resources in our Guideline on Donations and Sponsorship which applies throughout the Group. A standardised annual survey is used to measure the results of our engagement in order to
determine the Reputation Index. We apply the results to check the
effectiveness of our measures. In 2015, we achieved a score of 58.4
but this still remains below our target score of at least 59.0 points.
Our objective is to have achieved this target by 2018.
Action on fuel poverty
We help to ameliorate fuel poverty in the countries where we are
operating – particularly where the government and civil society do
not provide enough support. Fuel poverty is defined as households
which have to spend more than 10% of their net income on energy
needs. There are various differences here between the needs and
offerings in the individual countries.

56 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement

RWE has been cooperating with the Trussell Trust in a number of
communities across the United Kingdom. This is a charity working to
alleviate poverty and the two organisations have launched the Fuel
Bank Initiative to help vulnerable families which are unable to afford
to purchase electricity and gas. The initiative provides vouchers
worth about € 68 (£ 49) each that can be used to purchase energy
allocations. The vouchers are issued through the organisation Trussell Trust Food Banks, which distribute food packages to vulnerable
people.
The Health Through Warmth Programme enables us to support vulnerable people with long-term illnesses who need help to install
heating and carry out insulation measures, or to repair existing systems and appliances, which they cannot afford to fully fund them-

Distribution of projects for RWE Companius according to thematic topic in 2015
in %

2 Development aid

7 Nature conservation/Landscape preservation

1 Animals
2 Energy
17 Care and support

3 Knowledge and skills transfer
10 Culture
18 Sport

40 Craft activities



Content

selves. RWE also helps people affected by cancer who cannot pay
their energy bills through its partnership with the non-profit organisation Macmillan Cancer Support in the United Kingdom.
In Hungary, we work together with aid organisations and local
authorities in order to help vulnerable customers by providing advisory services on energy consumption and pre-paid electricity meters
so that they have the capability to control their own costs. We also
offer lignite to residents living in the vicinity of the Mátra power
plant for use as a heating fuel at a reduced price.
The Croatian Government has issued a Directive on Energy Poverty.
On 1 October 2015, around 60,000 vulnerable households in Croatia
started receiving monthly vouchers to help cover their bills for electricity consumption. As one of the major electricity suppliers in the
Croatian market, RWE has given its support to this solution.
Corporate volunteering
We promote volunteering by our employees under the umbrella of
the group-wide Corporate Volunteering Programme known as RWE
Companius. Targeted formats help us to allocate employees to a volunteering role appropriate to their requirements. The Expertise
Exchange gives the local community access to the know-how of our
employees, including on topics such as public relations work and performance audits. In cooperation with the Caritas Association for the
Diocese of Essen, we qualify and make arrangements for employees
to act as support mentors for older people. The RWE Companius format “Kopfverleih” or “Expert Advisor Group” is our way of enabling
colleagues to provide advice for non-governmental organisations.
This year the Expert Advisor Group was integrated in an internal
strategy meeting for the first time. Around 75 employees from 15
international RWE companies provided comprehensive advice for

57 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement

organisations keen to benefit from this assistance. We also integrate
Companius projects into commercial training in order to expand the
expertise of apprentices at RWE. In 2015, a total of more than 2,031
employees dedicated their time to providing assistance on 1,344 projects. The amount contributed to these projects totalled € 2 million
during the period under review.
Charitable projects in Hungary included giving Christmas presents
and donating 1,000 hot meals to vulnerable people there. We also
carried out several blood donation campaigns and contributed to
the Smiling Hospital Project. RWE also provided support for a nondenominational aid organisation with donations and a 14 kW photovoltaic plant so that it could generate its own electricity.
Aid for refugees
In cooperation with its long-standing community partners, RWE Companius Volunteering develops projects in the area of aid for refugees.
Employees of the entire Group, from apprentices to the executive
management make a commitment to team projects and individual
projects for refugees. In this year alone, 239 employees provided
assistance for refugees. They provided support by collecting aid supplies, worked as language teachers or renovated refugee homes. Refugees in Hungary were helped through the provision of blankets and
opportunities to charge their mobile phones. RWE employees from
different companies in Germany took part in a project where they
worked together with refugees and local people to establish a Talent
Workshop. RWE Companius promotes volunteering engagement.
Furthermore, RWE provided refugees with apartments located in former villages in the Rhineland lignite mining area which had been
vacated when the people in the villages were resettled. Land in the
surrounding areas of some power plant sites was also made availa-



Content

ble, for example in Niederaußem, Essen-Karnap, Weisweiler and
Ibbenbüren. These premises and sites are made available free of
charge. Only the provision and disposal of the facilities is compensated on the basis of cost.
RWE Education Initiative 3malE
“Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generate
enthusiasm among young people for energy and technological
issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future with them under
this focus. “3malE - Education with Energy” bundles the education
packages of all RWE companies in Germany. This initiative is intended
to help young people research, discover and experience energy. During the year under review, we significantly expanded these packages
for children, teenagers, students and teachers. School competitions,
trips, preparation of teaching materials and packages in social media
are some of the activities making a contribution to communicating
knowledge about topics related to energy in an informative approach.
Another example is a digital game which helps young people to learn
about generating and using renewable energy. In 2015, 492 experiment kits were loaned to 62 schools and 62 nurseries. 85 RWE employees were sent into schools as energy ambassadors. Around 600 school
classes, with more than 1,700 school children, and a large number of
students paid a visit to the company’s operational locations.
Education initiative in Poland
In 2013, the RWE Foundation in Poland and the Copernicus Science
Centre (CNK) launched their own educational programme - the RWE
Power Box. The initiative is based on an innovative approach in which
teachers apply modern teaching methods based on experiments when
they work together with school children. The focus is on important
topics relating to energy generation, storage and use. The system
also gives teachers in schools the opportunity to engage in discus-

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Community Engagement

in € million

13.3

15
12
9

3

5.9

6

5.7

8.0

RWE Foundation for Energy and Community
Since the realignment of the foundation in July 2014, the RWE Foundation for Energy and Community has consistently worked to redefine its profile from primarily a funding institution to a player in the
community and a think tank. The RWE Foundation has been able to
significantly expand its scope to provide financial assistance because
it is now operating as a non-perpetual trust. In addition to the foundation’s income, the endowed assets of € 60 million can now also be
used to fund projects. In 2015, the outgoings for sponsoring projects
and donations amounted to a total of around € 1.7 million. The
“Energy Avant-garde Anhalt: in the Real Laboratory of the Post-fossil
Future” is a particularly appropriate example of the new direction.
The sponsoring organisation Energy Avant-garde Anhalt (Energie­
avantgarde Anhalt e. V.) was set up with around 20 representatives

Donations and sponsorship

3.5

The 1st edition of the RWE Power Box Programme was used at 60
elementary schools in Warsaw. 40 educational institutions located
in Malbork and the Suwałki regions participated in the 2nd edition.
A total of more than 100 RWE Power Box sets were handed over to
schools. Ten thousand school children participated in the two editions of the programme. The programme is also being continued
in 2016.

5.4

In 2015, the third edition of the workshop in the RWE Power Box
Programme was held in Warsaw, Szczecin, Lublin, Elbląg, Poznań,
Wrocław, Gdańsk, Kraków and Katowice.

Content

from foundations, municipal utilities, administrative districts, the
Federal Environment Agency and also private individuals. Over the
course of the year, additional members are expected to join up.
The Energy Avant-garde Anhalt has joined forces with partners from
the region and a supraregional consortium to establish and trial a
regional energy system which will be increasingly based on renew­
able energy sources, a decentralised approach and prosumer roles.
The Real Laboratory enables the organisation to create an interactive
and flexible project structure which gets regional players and
national institutions from the public and private sectors around
one table.

4.5

sions on natural phenomena and sustainable development. The programme is intended for teachers and children attending elementary
schools and lower grades at secondary schools.



4.0

58 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

0
Donations
2012

2013

2014

Sponsorship
2015

59 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers



Content

MARKET AND CUSTOMERS
Electricity producers and customers have a strong partner in RWE. We are
continuously improving our performance in order to ensure that this situation
continues. The use of innovative technologies and applications is enabling
us to make the lives of our customers easier, to help them save energy and
to play a role in structuring a new energy market which has undergone a
fundamental transition.

Customer Loyalty
Index in Germany at

76
points

More than

More than

million electricity
customers

million gas
customers

16.4

7

More than

60,000
energy consultation
sessions mediated in
Germany in 2015

Charging grid network
for electric vehicles
with more than

100

municipal utility
partners

Making life easier and more comfortable: That’s
what RWE SmartHome is assisting with. Heating
and electronic devices can easily be controlled
wirelessly. Data protection is guaranteed.

60 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers

More than 23.4 million customers trust us to supply them with electricity, gas and heat at any time. We also support them with futureproof products and services. These include electricity and heat storage facilities for domestic households, solutions for saving energy,
but also service packages for management of their photovoltaic
plants and wind-power systems. In parallel to this, we are also continuously expanding the array of advice we offer, particularly in the area
of energy efficiency.
Challenge
Energy generation has become more dynamic. Apart from energy
utilities, an increasing number of ordinary citizens, mid-sized companies and cooperative ventures are generating electricity and feeding
the power into the public grid. The market has also changed in the
consumer retail business. Here we are also in competition with Inter-

Customer Loyalty Index1



Content

net-based providers who do not have their own generating capacities. This presents us with new challenges. If we are going to retain
existing customers and acquire new ones, we have to provide electricity, gas and heat at fair prices. We also need to convince customers about intelligent solutions for efficient and sustainable energy
management. Achieving this goal requires us to understand the
modified requirements of our customers even better and offer new
bespoke products and services which have been tailored to their
requirements. This is why innovation has been given an even higher
profile in the strategic focus of our company (p. 37). Future strategy
will increasingly be about not simply responding to the needs of customers but also about anticipating their aspirations in advance.
Motivation and targets
We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in new products and to recommend our company to other people. Our stated
objective is to be accepted by our customers as a service provider
and supplier, and also as a partner who can work with them to create
individual solutions.

80

76

75
73
71

72

76

73

70

65
2010

2011

1 Based on residential electricity customers in Germany.

2012

2013

2014

2015

Our usual high level of product quality, fast and streamlined processes and competitive prices continue to remain our top priorities
in this relationship.
Monitoring and performance measurement
The Customer Loyalty Index provides our method for measuring success. Since 2009, we have been determining this rating uniformly for
all retail businesses in Germany and we have also been using the rating in a similar form for other countries. This indicator is based on
surveys conducted among our residential and commercial customers.
These surveys ask customers whether they want to remain as customers of the relevant RWE company in the future, whether customers

61 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers

would recommend RWE to other consumers and whether customers
can also imagine sourcing other such products from RWE. Loyalty is
rated as low for scores of 70 or less, moderate for scores of 70 to 79
and high for scores above 80. During the year under review, we
achieved a rating of 76 for the Customer Loyalty Index in Germany
and this means we retain the score gained in the previous year. We
want to continue to improve and achieve a score of at least 77 in the
coming years up to 2018 in spite of the increasing competition.

Awards for customer service
Award

RWE company

Type of study

Awarded by

Second place in the category
of customer service
(score of 1)

RWE Vertrieb,
Germany

Study of gas providers 2015 German Institute for Service
Quality (Deutsches Institut
für Servicequalität, DISQ)

Second place for electricity,
second place for gas

RWE Vertrieb,
Germany

Web study Energy supply
companies 2015

Process Management
Consulting GmbH

Rating: Top Performer

RWE Vertrieb,
Germany

Sector analysis

imug Beratungsgesellschaft
mbH

Best value for money
(energy supplier)

Eprimo, Germany

Ranking

YouGov

Best website in the energy
sector

Essent, Netherlands

Regular study of consumer
Website benchmarker WUA!
experience when looking for
a new energy supplier

Best business partner in the
energy sector

Essent, Netherlands

Survey carried out among
readers of the magazine
Management Team who are
responsible for purchasing
energy as part of their job

Customer Friendly Company

RWE Poland

Investigation of customer
service

Management Obser­vatory
Foundation



Content

International customer loyalty and satisfaction
The score for the Customer Loyalty Index for Essent in the Netherlands was 77, slightly higher than in 2014 (76). The loyalty of our
customers in the Czech Republic remained stable and it is currently
at an index score of 71. The switch rates came down here over the
course of 2015. Our score for the Customer Loyalty Index in Poland
was 80 in 2015.
Apart from customer loyalty, we also survey customer satisfaction.
The Customer Satisfaction Index for retail electricity customers of RWE
Germany was 77 in 2015. Customer satisfaction in the Netherlands
with a score of 85 was marginally higher than in 2014, while it is 63
in the United Kingdom. Customer satisfaction in Belgium improved
to 86 by comparison with 2014. In the Czech Republic, the segment
average was around 65. The customer satisfaction for our business
and residential customers in Hungary was rather higher in 2015 than
in 2014. In Poland, customer satisfaction achieved a score of 79.
Intelligent home control with SmartHome
RWE SmartHome is a wireless-based home control system offering
a value-for-money and uncomplicated entry into the Internet of
Things. RWE SmartHome can network building technology and
currently about 30 household appliances into a smart home. Over
the course of 2015, the system was also continuously developed
and supplemented by new components. Data from the Netatmo
weather station enables fans, roller shutters and electrical appliances to be controlled automatically. The Energy Control read-out
unit is another new component which enables conventional electricity meters to be integrated in the RWE SmartHome. This allows electricity consumption to be tracked by smart phone and controlled in
this way.

62 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers

Data security and data protection are a top priority for RWE in this
process. The security concept of RWE SmartHome ranges from
encoded communication between the appliances, through the RWE
IT back-end, to the safe online shop. Data security was confirmed
by independent institutions, such as the Association for Electrical,
Electronic and IT Technologies (VDE), the independent testing
organisation for IT safety AV-Test, and the TÜViT technical inspectorate.
Flat rate for green electricity
RWE Vertrieb is offering the first flat rate for green electricity in Germany. This has been undergoing a field test in Hannover since the
beginning of September 2015. This rate is made up of various flat-

RWE solar weeks
During the first half of the year, RWE strategically promoted entry into photovoltaics and
storage of solar electricity within the framework of its Solar Weeks (Solarwochen). It
cooperated with local professional installers
to offer solar packages. Customers provided
photos of their house and received advice free
of charge. RWE clarified any data relevant for
the house and electricity consumption, and
then provided a bespoke offer for the installation of a photovoltaic system.



Content

rate charges and is incremental on the basis of consumption. Customers are allocated a flat-rate amount for the next twelve months
on the basis of consumption in the previous year. If a customer consumes more electricity, it is not necessary to pay a supplement but
the account is regraded to a higher increment for the following year.
On the other hand, thrifty households are rewarded with a bonus.
Individual energy services for residential customers
We are helping our customers to identify potential energy savings
and make the most of them. Examples of these offers include energy
concepts, provision of advice on reducing energy use and building
analyses. Anybody interested can also find out on the Internet about
issues such as building insulation, promotion measures for energybased refurbishment and particularly efficient household appliances.
We use our network of professional energy advisors to provide advice
for residential customers in Germany.
> www.energiewelt.de (German)
Our customers in Hungary have access to two energy advice centres and we also provide information on the Internet about options
for saving energy. We also offer energy audits for households under
the enHome brand. enHome has been able to position itself as market leader in retail business and construction of photovoltaic systems for residential households in Hungary.
Similarly, we give assistance to our customers in the Czech Republic
by helping them to reduce their energy consumption. Customers
are able to use the website setrimenergii.cz (“I save energy”) to
analyse the different consumers in their household and compare
the saving measures with other customers.

63 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers

Individual energy services for commercial customers
We offer our commercial customers an energy controlling system in
Germany. This allows them to strategically increase their energy efficiency. The process encompasses recording the relevant data relating
to the consumption of electricity, heat energy and water, and evaluation by presentation of the potential savings and concrete recommendations for action.
In order to increase energy efficiency and reduce energy costs in
companies, RWE also offers planning, finance, construction and operation of advanced combined heat and power energy plants for
energy consumers in Germany with high requirements for heat and
electricity. We support the operators of plants for electricity generation using renewable energies with cost-optimised feed-in of the
electricity they generate to the public grid.
Commercial customers in Hungary have access to our EnergiaNet
online portal for optimising their energy consumption.
RWE carried out a study in cooperation with the Association of Czech
Small and Mid-sized Enterprises (SME). The result demonstrated that
although a large number of companies measure their energy consumption they do not pursue active energy management. RWE has
strategic offers of advice geared towards optimising the energy consumption of small and mid-sized companies.



Content

Joint-ventures and packages in the area of electromobility
In the area of electromobility, we are focusing on the establishment
and sale of charging infrastructure and mobility services, and on networking existing technologies in the everyday world. RWE operates
many thousands of charging stations and it is one of the leading
European providers and operators of charging infrastructure. More
than 100 municipal utility partners have joined forces with RWE to
provide the biggest public charging network in Germany.
As a technology supplier, RWE has acquired major partners and customers, including discounter ALDI Süd which offers its customers
charging facilities without any payment at around 50 locations. The
energy is generated at the individual sites by photovoltaic systems
located on the roofs of the supermarkets at each branch.
A package has also been developed to enable customers of RWE
to charge their car electric at home. This comprises a photovoltaic
system with energy management and solar power storage.
The ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary operates the country’s most
comprehensive eMobility charging infrastructure grid. In 2015, the
system was bolstered by another DC fast-charge device at Budapest
Airport.

64 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Market and Customers

INTERVIEW

DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY



Content

Data are extremely important for the transition in the European energy sector as well as for the megatrend of digitisation. How does RWE
guarantee the security of data? Our Editorial Team talked to Florian Haacke, Head of Group Security RWE AG, and Uwe Bargmann, Head of
Group Data Protection RWE AG.

Florian Haacke,
Head of Group Security RWE AG

Uwe Bargmann, Head of Group Data
Protection RWE AG
The interview was conducted by
Franziska Klapper,
RWE Corporate Responsibility

Many RWE products are based on networking appliances and the
analysis of consumption data. How are security and data protection
guaranteed here?
BARGMANN: The requirements for protecting information have
changed significantly. This presents new challenges not just for RWE.
That is why all new products are checked for legal, technical and
organisational compliance. In order to protect the private sphere of
the customer, we use comprehensible data protection declarations,
effective consents and technologies for anonymisation, pseudonimisation and encryption.
It seems that the competition for customers is likely to be won by the
particular energy provider who takes the smartest approach to using
data. How is RWE making use of customers’ data?
HAACKE: The winning provider will generate the greatest value added
for its customers. Group Security and Group Data Protection join
together with the specialist departments to identify the relevant
data. Our aim is to create transparency for the processing of customers’ data. The trust of the customer becomes a differentiating competitive factor particularly in the case of retail business.

How are the issues of data protection and IT security dealt with in
the Big Data lighthouse project?
BARGMANN: Group Data Protection has been supporting the project
right from the beginning. Personal information is often not necessary
at all. A good example of this is provided by the SmartHome applications of RWE. We regularly check our protection measures for technical status and connection data. We also adopt a critical approach to
our processes and in some cases go beyond the industry standard.
Outsourcing and cloud computing are leading to a distribution of
our data to different places with access opportunities for different
service providers. What requirements do you have to take account
of here?
HAACKE: As one of the first DAX groups, we have developed a Cloud
Security Policy for ourselves and our partner companies. In many
cases, we also have to consider the transmission of personal data
to non-EU countries. Service providers for service and support often
have their registered office in countries with an inadequate level
of data protection. This means that an appropriate level of data
protection has to be achieved by means of technical and organisational measures. A method of risk assessment was worked out to
achieve this.

65 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees



Content

EMPLOYEES
RWE needs to adapt to the new framework conditions in the energy economy.
Organisational changes are inevitable in this process. We intend to structure
the cultural change responsibly and in close communication with our employees. If we are to create a working environment which will enable us to remain
an attractive employer, we are dependent on the key elements of flexibility
and diversity.

Motivation Index at

72.4
points

Demography Index at

82.5
points

1 Comprises the top four management levels

2,339

apprenticeship places
at 50 sites

Number of employees
remained virtually
constant

15.2%

proportion of women
in management
positions1

The new standards for RWE’s future working
practices are being defined in the programme
New Way of Working (NWoW). About 17,000
employees are currently being trained in the
new working methods.

66 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees

Challenge
The RWE Group continues to be confronted by the biggest challenges in the history of the company. And our human resource policy
is no exception. Restructuring operations and organisational realignments are unavoidable as far as we are concerned. New areas of business have been built up, while the number of employees is stagnating or declining with others. The number of employees in our
workforce (expressed in full-time jobs or full-time equivalents, FTE)
remained virtually constant with 59,784 at the end of 2014 compared to 59,762 at the end of 2015.
Motivation and targets
We are organising necessary restructuring measures, reallocations of
human resources and a reduction in the overall number of jobs in a
socially responsible and ethical approach. The process involves ongoing conversations with employee representatives throughout the
Group and with union representatives. We are structuring our work
culture together with our employees in order to remain competitive
and attractive. In this process, we believe it is important for us to
maintain the engagement and motivation of our employees at all
times even though the framework conditions have become tougher.
Monitoring and performance measurement
We have defined the Motivation Index as a benchmark for measuring
the engagement and motivation of our employees. This is recorded
in a staff survey carried out across the entire Group. This index is
integrated as a performance indicator in the calculation of the variable compensation paid to the Executive Board of RWE. During the
year under review 2015, the index had a value of 72.4 points. We
have therefore already reached our target value of 72.2 for 2017.



Content

We also use the Demography Index as the second indicator in the area
for action Employees. This indicator provides a method of assessing
the age structure of the employees in the company. In 2015, the
Demography Index was 82.5 points. As the value of the index
approaches 100, the age structure within the Group becomes more
balanced. By 2018, we intend to achieve a score of at least 84 points.
Group-wide job market
Change in employment driven by the energy transition entails a farreaching restructuring of the workforce. In April 2015, our central
SWITCH Job Platform was therefore launched as a dedicated business
unit with group-wide focus. SWITCH offers an overview of vacant jobs
within the Group, supports recruitment to posts from the vacancy
notice to the appointment, helps employees to recalibrate their career,
achieve further qualifications and mediates new jobs for them as necessary. SWITCH is also building up its own employee base which can
be booked for projects in other areas over a limited period of time.
Cultural change in the company
The growing business pressure being exerted on the RWE Group and
the changes occurring in the energy market present us with challenges which necessitate a cultural change at our company. We have
therefore initiated an array of different programmes in order to make
this a reality.
Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of working
within the Group. The programme New Way of Working (NWoW) has
been designed to achieve this. We are defining new standards for our
working practices, promoting the skills of our employees and developing a common working culture in the three areas of leadership and
alignment, universal process management, and operational excellence. We are also analysing functions, processes and methods of

67 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees



working in different areas of the Group and initiating any changes
required, for example we are improving internal cooperation and
implementing a more robust feedback culture. Our intention is to
use these and other measures to enhance customer satisfaction
and improve the financial result.
At the moment, around 200 NWoW experts are currently working
on a total of 20 projects for rolling out the concept more extensively
in the Group. Alongside 70 employees at Group Headquarters, 130
local experts are working in the companies. Some 17,000 colleagues
are now being trained in new working practices.
Appeal as an employer and training
We will only be able to continue mastering the future challenges presented in the energy business by having professional and dedicated
employees and managers. Our aim is therefore to continue recruiting

Development of the Motivation index1
75

Content

talented young people to work at RWE. We use a range of different
tools to make contact with them including our Online Career Portal
and our Applicant Academy where we advise graduates, school children and people with career experience. The aim is to help them
make a start on the career ladder in the world of work or change jobs.
We focus our on-site activities on selected universities in Germany
and abroad, as well as offering personal interviews. We also provide
around 2,400 young people with a high-quality apprenticeship training in 30 different training vocations encompassing industrial, technical and commercial fields. In addition, we also offer twin-track
degree courses incorporating practical and in-service training modules within the course structure. We continue to carry out training
that extends beyond our own specific needs and this gives a large
number of young people an opportunity to enter the job market.
We have been using the initiative: “I can do this” (Ich pack’ das) for a
long time to provide support for teenagers and young adults who
have not yet been able to gain an apprenticeship place although
they have successfully completed education at school. Since the programme was launched, more than 1,000 participants have benefited
from the one-year entry-level foundation qualification. 80% of them
have gone on to obtain an apprenticeship place afterwards.

72.4
71.1

2012

2013

70.3

70

70

71.3

Diversity and equal opportunity
Diversity represents an opportunity for cultural change in our company and it improves our routine work every day. Taking advantage
of this opportunity involves us in promoting the careers of women,
integrating people with disabilities, fostering intercultural exchange
within the Group and getting the work-life balance right between
career and family.

70.7

68

65
2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2014

2015

1 Changing rhythm: Companies have been determining the Motivation Index since 2011 every three years. Group values as moving averages.

68 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Employees

We established the Inclusive Culture Focus Group in our subsidiary
companies with the aim of promoting diversity among our employees. The objective is also to design measures through discussions,
which will be able to continue strengthening integrative corporate
culture throughout the Group. Participants include men and women
from different origins, religion and sexual orientation, and any individuals with and without disabilities.
Increasing the proportion of women
Our original aim was to increase the overall proportion of women in
management positions to 22% by 2018. However, this has become
too ambitious a goal in view of the sustained restructuring measures.
We have therefore redefined the target as 17%. By the end of 2015,
the proportion of women in management positions throughout the



Content

Group was 15.2% (2014: 14.3%). In order to comply with the new
statutory regulation in Germany, we have defined targets for the proportion of women in Supervisory Boards and management bodies for
RWE AG and all our subsidiary companies affected by the legislation.
As far as RWE AG is concerned, this means achieving a percentage of
women on the Supervisory Board amounting to a minimum of 30%
by 2017. In future, at least one position on the Executive Board of
RWE AG should be occupied by a woman. Our ambition is to achieve
a proportion of women amounting to 25% at the first management
level below the Executive Board and a proportion of 30% at the second level below the Executive Board. Three women are currently
members of the 20-strong Supervisory Board of RWE AG and two of
these are elected by the employees. During the year under review,
the Executive Board did not have a woman representative.

69 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain



SUPPLY CHAIN
As globalisation of markets continues apace, national borders also lose
their relevance for trade in energy sources. However, internationally binding
standards for environmental protection, human rights and occupational safety
have hardly been established. Companies like RWE are therefore being challenged by their stakeholders to exert influence on suppliers through their
procurement policy.

€ 6.8

billion for standard
goods, services and
power-station
components

99.4%
of the purchasing
volume is subject to
sustainability
requirements

Sustainable Biomass
Partnership publishes
standard in March

2015

Combustion fuels
procured for

€ 8.2
billion

12

self and site
assessments available
through Bettercoal

In order to guarantee environmental
and socially sustainable methods of
cultivation and production of biomass,
RWE is using the new industrial standard of the Sustainable Biomass
Partnership (SBP).

Content

70 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain

Challenge
RWE purchases a large proportion of its combustion fuels in global
wholesale markets. This also applies to many goods and services.
Our stakeholders expect us to purchase these products from companies which observe compliance with human rights, offer workers
reasonable working conditions and operate effective environmental
protection.
Motivation and targets
In cooperation with our suppliers, we intend to go beyond the statutory requirements relating to compliance and promotion of international environmental and social standards for procurement. All suppliers of RWE should understand and take account of the relevant
international environmental and social standards, and other detailed
requirements as necessary. We therefore include information about
how our suppliers comply with sustainability requirements in our pur-

Hard coal by supply countries 2015
in %
3.4 Poland
3.8 Other
8.2 South Africa

25.1 Russia

9.8 USA
13.5 Germany

19.8 Colombia

16.3 United Kingdom



Content

chasing decision. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, our
Code of Conduct and other detailed guidelines form the basis for
these requirements.
Monitoring and performance measurement
We use the proportion of the purchase volume subject to the requirements of our Code of Conduct as a constituent element of the contractual relationship in the form of the key performance indicator (KPI)
and indicator for target attainment in the area for action of Supply
Chain. This proportion should be at least 98% of our purchasing volume. Our target here is complete coverage of our purchasing volume.
During the year under review, the degree of coverage was 99.4%.
Sourcing energy commodities and trading
Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard coal
and natural gas, as well as trading in combustion fuels (p. 7). Raw
materials are traded as standardised products with defined quality
attributes on international virtual wholesale markets. These markets
are the most important source of procurement. Trading is carried out
along standardised processes with the involvement of a large number of market players. Before we take physical ownership of the raw
materials, they have often changed ownership several times in the
virtual market after they were first offered for sale by the producers.
Generally, it is only possible for us to identify the immediate upstream
owner, but the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not
known. There are therefore only direct supplier relationships to a limited extent between RWE and the producers. This means we have virtually no opportunities to exert any direct pressure on production
conditions.

71 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain

Review of trading partners
We review all potential trading partners for energy commodities
before we enter into any business relationships with them. Our Counterparty Risk Assessment (CPRA) provides helpful assistance in carrying out this review. We undertake a standardised, multistage process
to check international databases and information systems to see
whether any misconduct is known in relation to the ten principles of
the UN Global Compact or our Code of Conduct. Since 2014, we have
been taking account of the information garnered in the Bettercoal
Initiative. The number of our accredited trading partners fluctuates
and is generally between 1,500 and 2,500. The purchasing volume
procured through wholesale markets amounted to around € 8.2 billion in 2015.
Requirements for procurement of hard coal
Our goal is to ensure sourcing of hard coal in the necessary amounts
and to the required quality while at the same time monitoring environmental and social standards in our supply chain. In 2015, we
imported around 57% of our hard coal from countries which are not
members of the OECD. When Germany ceases production of hard
coal after 2018, the country will be completely dependent on the
import of this combustion fuel.
Bettercoal Initiative
Acting alone as an individual company, RWE can only exert a very
limited impact on compliance with standards in occupational safety,
employment relations and environmental protection in the supply
chain for hard coal. Cooperating with other energy companies is
absolutely essential in order to be in a position to exert more pressure and achieve sustainable production conditions. In 2012, we



Content

joined forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the
Bettercoal initiative. By the end of 2015, twelve of the biggest European energy companies were already members of Bettercoal. The
Dutch ports also joined the initiative as associate members.
The first inspection of a coal mine by independent auditors was carried out in Columbia in 2014. On the basis of the results, an improvement process was agreed with clear targets and deadlines. At the
end of 2015, another inspection took place and confirmed the implementation of the agreed measures. Bettercoal uses a central database to provide its member companies with the results of the audits
or the outcomes of self-assessments by the mines. The names of the
mines which have undergone a self-assessment or an on-site audit
are regularly listed on the Bettercoal website – provided that the
mines agree to publication. At the end of 2015, 12 mines had been
recorded in this way. They cover the key potential supplier countries
for Europe. In the summer of 2015, Bettercoal published its first
annual report.
> Bettercoal
Implementation of commitment
At the end of 2014, the Dutch utility companies, including RWE
subsidiary company Essent, and the Dutch government signed a
declaration of commitment for improvements in the international
production and procurement of hard coal. An initial progress report
was published at the end of 2015. It presents the progress that
energy utilities and government institutions made during the year
under review. One of the core elements is the Bettercoal initiative.
The report and further steps to be taken for the year 2016 were
discussed in a stakeholder dialogue.

72 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain

Requirements for the procurement of biomass
In order to be able to establish biomass as a sustainable alternative
to fossil fuels, environmental and socially ethical conditions must be
guaranteed for the methods of cultivation and production. Certificates are used for this in order to guarantee compliance with sustainability aspects along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets
imported by us. Up until the end of 2015, we applied the Green Gold
Label (GGL) for certification. In future, we will use the new industrial
standard of the Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP) for this purpose. The reference standard was published in March 2015. Up to
now, the United Kingdom and Denmark have acknowledged the SBP
Standard as being compliant with the national sustainability criteria.
During the first half of 2016, this should also be confirmed in the
Netherlands in the course of an official proceeding by the authorities
there. Over the coming months, the standard will be continuously
improved and this process will have been published by the end of
2016.
> Sustainable Biomass Partnership
Sourcing goods, services and plants
Our uniform Group reference standard is the tool we use to monitor
the purchase of goods, services and plant components for the oper­
ation, maintenance and new-build of our plants. Direct business
relationships we have with individual suppliers and service providers
mean that we can include our Code of Conduct as an addendum and
constituent element of each contract. This enables us to communicate
a clearly defined specification of our expectations for our suppliers
and service providers.



Content

An initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a self-assessment
helps us to gather additional information on the issues of environmental protection, occupational safety and compliance. During the
year under review, 285 suppliers were assessed on the issue of environmental protection and 3,362 on occupational safety. Regular
reviews are carried out for all suppliers to verify conformity with
potential compliance risks and we also carry out reconciliations with
the Black List maintained by the World Bank and with the sanctions
lists drawn up by the EU. When any problems occur in the course of a
business relationship, we address the matter with our suppliers and
work together with them to achieve improvements jointly.
Around 11,900 suppliers are registered in our supplier portfolio,
330 of them are of particular strategic importance. We are in regular,
close contact with these specific suppliers. The purchasing volume
for goods, services and for plant components was € 6.8 billion in
2015.

73 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain

INTERVIEW

RWE AS A SUPPLIER



Content

Wacker Chemie requires registration by EcoVadis for their important suppliers, including RWE. EcoVadis offers Wacker Chemie and other
industrial concerns a method of scoring that can be applied to the supplier base in relation to sustainability. What are the consequences if
a supplier cannot or does not want to provide verification? Our Editorial Team talked to Jochen Lediger, Senior Procurement Manager of
Wacker Chemie AG.

Jochen Lediger,
Senior Procurement Manager of
Wacker Chemie AG

What is the importance of sustainability for Wacker?
LEDIGER: Wacker Chemie AG has made sustainability a top priority for
corporate governance for a long time. Participation of Wacker in two
global initiatives provides the platform: Responsible Care® of the
chemical industry and the Global Compact of the United Nations. In
2015, Wacker joined the company initiative “Together for Sustainability” in order to strengthen the issue of sustainability in its global supply chain. The objective of this initiative is to evaluate suppliers in
accordance with sustainability criteria in an audit or a self-assessment and to work together on the potential for possible improvements. Participation in the programme is voluntary for suppliers but
there are advantages for both sides.
Why is a sustainable supply chain relevant for Wacker?
LEDIGER: Overall, we believe it is important for the evaluation of our
suppliers to exert a beneficial effect on the entire value chain in the
chemicals industry. Naturally, we expect risks to be minimised for the
company because we will be in a better position to achieve an even

better evaluation of suppliers. We expect transparency in the industry for sustainability aspects across the different stages of the value
chain, which will ultimately contribute to an improvement in the community. Our commitment and our interest is directed towards using
this engagement to exert a positive impact on the social, environmental and economic aspects of the communities we are associated
with.
Was good performance at EcoVadis one of the key factors for the
selection of RWE as an energy supplier?
LEDIGER: RWE has been an important supplier to Wacker Chemie AG
for various products in the electricity market in Germany over a very
long period of time. Our internal supplier evaluation will therefore be
regularly used to compare RWE with other suppliers. RWE complied
with another criterion in this supplier evaluation by participating in
the company initiative Together for Sustainability and in particular its
willingness to complete the EcoVadis questionnaire. Naturally, a
good performance rating is also a key factor for us.

74 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Supply Chain



Content

INTERVIEW
What sustainability aspects relating to energy generation are
assessed by Ecovadis?
LEDIGER: The questionnaire from EcoVadis covers all the key aspects
for evaluation of a company on the basis of sustainability criteria.
Each individual questionnaire is nuanced for different groups of suppliers, depending on their size and the focus of the particular company. The focuses for energy suppliers are on the aspects of environment/climate, management processes and governance.

The interview was conducted by
Dr Marita Hilgenstock,
RWE Corporate Responsibility

Will you also be considering delistings for poor performance ratings
in future or will you be working towards achieving more sustainable
behaviour from suppliers?
LEDIGER: In future, this appraisal will be included in our supplier evaluation. We have established a process for all our key suppliers in our
procurement of raw materials. This highlights potential for improvements and permits joint tracking together with the supplier. These
possibilities for potential improvement also include sustainability
aspects. Of course, it is important to us that we work together with
strong partners who like us represent the core values in compliance
with the Global Compact and Responsible Care®. Suppliers also need
to implement the values within their companies and make them a
living reality. Our view of RWE is that the company is on a good
trajectory.

75 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management

OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT
The safety, the health and the work ability of our employees and the employees of our partner companies are extremely important at RWE. This objective
involves us in continuously improving our workplace safety management in
cooperation with our partner companies, as well as carrying out measures for
healthcare promotion.

In the Safety Team experts of RWE and partner companies are working together for the improvement of
occupational safety. Through the concept the accident rate of subcontractors could be reduced again
by one third during the second year of the project.

Current LTIF is

2.2

4

fatal occupational
accidents

Reduction of the
accident rate by an
average of

15%

each year during the
past ten years

Around

22,600
responses to the
Work Ability Index
(WAI) in Germany

Group-wide health
ratio at

95.1%



Content

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management

Challenge
Our employees and the employees of our partner companies often
carry out their assignments at workplaces with special requirements
for occupational health and safety. In particular, these include activities in the area of opencast mining, in technical areas at our power
plants, and at transmission lines or wind turbines. As an employer,
we take our responsibilities very seriously and minimise the risks of
accidents and health hazards. Alongside retaining the physical health
or our employees, we also have a duty to look after the mental

Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF)1

4
1

1

2.2

2

2.3

2.3

2.8

3

3

4

4

0
2011

2012

2013

2014



Content

health of our staff. We believe that this is a particularly important
task in times of change within the company, which are also accompanied by uncertainties.
Motivation and targets
Our aim is to achieve a uniformly high level of occupational health and
safety by developing standards. This ambition is fostered by carrying
out needs-based prevention campaigns focusing on accident prevention. Our objective is to promote the health of our workforce, as well
as preventing all accidents and work-related health hazards relating to
our employees and colleagues working with partner companies.
Monitoring and performance management
The key performance indicator we use for occupational safety is the
number of accidents with the loss of at least one day of work for
every one million hours worked (Lost Time Incident Frequency, LTIF).
In the reporting year 2015, we succeeded in maintaining the number
of occupational accidents at a uniformly good level and achieved an
LTIF of 2.2. We intend to reduce this level to 1.8 by 2018.

5

5

2.8

76 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

2015

Fatal occupational accidents1
Occupational and commuting accidents2
1 Including reports known to us submitted by employees of partner companies (subcontractors).
2	Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents with at least one day of absence from
work for each 1 million hours worked); occupational accidents from 2012 including reports
known to us from partner companies (subcontractors).

A Health and Safety Index (H&S Index) was determined in the staff
survey for the first time in 2015. It reflects the cultural development
in the field of safety at RWE. In the long term, the H&S Index will
be used to document progress in the development of the health
and safety culture over the years in relation to team orientation and
coaching. In 2015, the Health and Safety Index (H & S Index) was 71.5.
We also measure the progress in healthcare management on the
basis of annual indicators such as the health ratio or the Work Ability
Index (WAI). In 2015, the health ratio was 95.1% (2014: 95.4%) in
the RWE Group.

77 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management

We very much regret to have to report that four fatal occupational
accidents occurred in 2015. The causes of these accidents are being
investigated by international accident analysis teams. On the basis of
the results of the analyses carried out by our specialist experts, we
are taking action together with our partner companies to adopt suitable measures for preventing similar accidents of this nature in the
future.
Anchoring at management level
In 2015, Health and Safety Culture Development was launched in the
RWE Group. This project analyses and develops the issues of health
and occupational safety for the first time within the framework of
cultural development. The aim of the project is to increase the health
ratio sustainably and reduce the LTIF rate. This was implemented by
starting three processes in parallel:
QQ Managers come together with employees in order to discuss the

issues of health and occupational safety in concrete terms and in
a joint forum. The prime aim is to bring down the level of
absences linked to motivation, reduce mental stress and physical
burdens, and prevent accidents from happening in the first place.
QQ Furthermore, relationships in the workplace and autonomous
responsibility of employees are discussed together with line
managers. Moreover, the employees are given the opportunity of
integrating the issue of health into employee discussions, during
inspections and at meetings.
QQ As a third measure, best practices from individual companies are
recorded and transferred to other companies.
The project was launched in January 2015. In the meantime, more
than 800 managers have been trained in 35 workshops and approximately 300 experts in ten workshops. The Group is providing the



Content

appropriate funds for implementing the project and pursuing the
goal of developing the health and safety culture in a sustainable
approach.
Occupational safety with partner companies
The concept of the Safety Team is implemented within the framework
of workplace safety management throughout the RWE Group.
Experts from RWE and partner companies work together in teams to
improve workplace safety in all areas of the companies involved. The
Safety Team proved to be successful especially in the pilot sector of
Süwag in 2015. The accident rate of partner companies had already
been reduced by 50% during the first year of the project and it fell
again by one third during the second year. Based on this success the
Safety Teams is now increasingly to be installed group-wide.
Excellent occupational safety
In 2015, an RWE company was awarded the German Workplace
Safety Prize for the second time in succession. RWE’s subsidiary company Süwag and its Safety Team were awarded the prize in the category of Organisational Solutions at large companies. The workplace
safety prize is awarded every two years and is presented at the
world’s biggest specialist forum for workplace safety and occupational safety in Dusseldorf.
In the Czech Republic, RWE received the highest award as a Health
Promoting Company from the Institute for Public Health. A sevenpoint programme allows every employee to monitor their own health.
The package includes mobile diagnostic instruments located directly
at workplaces and benefits with service providers in the healthcare
sector.

78 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management



Content

Expansion of Operational Healthcare Management
Since June 2015, international management and coordination in the
area of health has been carried out in the Centre of Expertise Health.
The centre bundles the issues of occupational medicine, healthcare
management, social counselling service and emergency medicine.

number of measures including the Work Ability Index (WAI) to record
employees’ performance and ability to carry out their work. This is
based on the subjective assessments by the employees in our workforce and it records the extent to which they are in a position to carry
out their work satisfactorily at the present time and in the future.

An important focus is provided by raising the awareness of effective
handling of stress and career workload. We have developed a modular package on the issue of resilience as part of the training package
offered by Operational Healthcare Management (OHM). We use a

At the end of 2015, 70% of the employees in our German companies
were recorded in the index (2014: 70%). By the end of 2015, a total
of 22,600 questionnaires had been completed for the index.

79 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply



Content

SECURITY OF SUPPLY
One of our central functions is to provide an uninterrupted and affordable
supply of electricity, gas and heat to our customers. RWE produces and procures the necessary raw materials for producing energy, and constructs and
operates renewable and conventional plants for generation of electricity.
It also deploys innovative solutions for the modernisation and maintenance
of our distribution grids.

RWE is one of the major distribution system operators in Germany.
Already now the RWE grids are
taking up lage amounts of electricity from renewable energies and
are distributing it in the urban and
industrial consumption centres.

13.4

minutes fault-based
non-availability of the
electricity grid in
Germany in 2014

One of the biggest
operators of distribution
grids in Germany with

331,000
km

Gas distribution grid of

48,000
in Germany and
63,875 km in the
Czech Republic

0.6

minutes fault-based
non-availability of the
gas grid in Germany in
2014

Award for the projects
AmpaCity, Grid4EU,
Smart Country and
Power to Gas

80 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply



Content

Challenge
The expansion and integration of renewable energies and decentralised generating units present continuously increasing demands for
the performance of distribution grids and conventional power plants.
Securing the supply of energy under these conditions is a challenge
that we are having to deal with in Germany and in our other markets.

Comparison of grid outages per year and customer
in minutes

500
476.1
450
427.7
400
358.0

Outage times min/year

350
300

180

120

170

100

174.6

102.4

60

91

76.3

77.5

65.4

74.6

60.1

58.9

62.1

18.1

17.1

15.7

14.9

15.3

15.9

15.3

12.3

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

75.7
66.0

69.0

40

52.1

20

21.9

0

97.0

93.6

89
80

376.1

 WE distribution grid Germany
R
Average for Germany1
1 Source: German Federal Network Agency (2014) 

74.0

64.0
52.4

RWE distribution grid Hungary (Elmű)
RWE distribution grid Hungary (Émász)
Average for Hungary2

13.4

RWE distribution grid
Poland
Average for Poland

2 Source: Council of European Energy Regulators (2014)

Motivation and targets
We want to guarantee our customers a secure and affordable supply
of electricity and gas continuously and at all times. In order to
achieve this goal, we have defined our target as restricting power
outages in Germany to a maximum of 15 minutes per customer each
year. The dependable availability of our power plants and secure supply with fuels for combustion are crucial factors as far as we are concerned. We also want to guarantee security of supply for the generation and distribution of energy as the further expansion of renewable
energies continues. In 2015, we connected another 7,000 renewable
energy plants to our distribution grid. A total of 315,000 plants are
feeding into our grids.
Monitoring and performance assessment
We use the number of minutes of power outages that occur for each
customer and year as the key performance indicator in the area of
security of supply (System Average Interruption Index, SAIDI). In 2014,
we succeeded in continuing to provide a largely uninterrupted supply
of electricity and gas for our customers. Fault-based non-availability
for the electricity distribution grid in Germany amounted to an average of 13.4 minutes for each customer in 2014. This value for nonavailability had still been 15.7 minutes in 2013. The average nonavailability for the gas supply resulting from faults in Germany was
0.59 minutes for each customer and year in 2014, compared with
* The data for the year 2015 were not available when this report went to press.

81 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply

0.46 minutes in 2013. The energy sources necessary for secure operation of our power plants were available continuously throughout
2015.
Initiatives and projects
Conventional power plants are still necessary to provide secure and
reliable electricity supply in spite of the further expansion of renewable energies. The fluctuating availability of wind and solar plants
means that gaps in supply could regularly occur without these
sources of electricity. The conventional RWE power plants therefore
make a significant contribution to security of supply. Over the past
several years, we have invested in the flexibility of our lignite-fired
power stations so that we are even better able to respond to the
fluctuations. The focus of this capital expenditure was on digitisation
of control technology in order to increase the load change rate and
to reduce the minimum load point. We have increased quick-start
capability in our gas-fired power stations. As an example, the combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power station in Lingen (Germany)
only requires 45 minutes to reach 540 MW from a cold start. This is
defining new benchmarks.
Our power plants are available to the transmission system operators
(TSO) for so-called redispatch measures in order to minimise the
loads placed on the grid as a result of electricity supplied to customers. In future, the security standby of lignite-fired power stations will
be available to provide a backup of last resort for a limited period of
tim (p. 41 ff.).
Adequate power plant capacities are available at any time to cover
the exceptionally rare case of a blackout. These have their own supply for starting up and they are on standby to restore the grid.



Content

Weather-dependent and seasonal electricity production from renew­
able plants takes place primarily in rural settings. It requires newly
sized energy distribution grids and a more dynamic load management. Today, our distribution grids already accept large amounts of
electricity generated from wind and solar energy, and biogas, and
distribute this in municipal and industrial centres of high demand.
Since the expansion of renewable energies is on an upward trajectory, we will tailor our electricity and natural-gas grids even more to
the local feed-ins from the grid subscribers.
Proactive Distribution Grid
The demonstration project for the Proactive Distribution Grid operated by RWE and Westnetz GmbH describes the changing role of a
distribution grid operator towards more organisational capability.
The project involves developing and testing technical solutions which
enable the operator to deal with grid bottlenecks by calling on flexibility in the market. This method is significantly more cost effective
compared with a conventional grid structure. An important element
of the project is developing rules for coordination between grid and
market, and their prototypical implementation. A communication and
service platform is being worked out as the technological base in
order to facilitate more efficient load management by permitting provision of new system services from the distribution grid. Against the
background of the generally local feed-in from renewable energies
and other small systems into the distribution grids, measures like this
provide a potential solution for operating grids with high penetration
of renewable energies without having to engage in a comprehensive
expansion of the grid.

82 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Security of Supply

Power to Gas
Storage systems are gaining increasing importance in order to compensate for natural fluctuations caused by the steadily increasing
proportion of renewable energies used to generate electricity. We
need to develop new technologies so that we are able to store large
quantities of surplus electricity over longer periods of time as necessary. In 2015, RWE started also up operation of a power-to-gas
plant for this purpose in Ibbenbüren, North Rhine-Westphalia. The
advanced plant is the centrepiece of a system solution used for the
first time, which links up local supply of electricity, natural gas and
district heating to a storage chain. The plant converts surplus electricity generated from renewable energies into hydrogen. This can
subsequently be stored as natural gas. The energy stored in this way
can then be used for conversion to heat or for energy generation at
any subsequent point in time. The advantage offered by this type of
electricity storage is being able to use the energy infrastructure that
is already available today with powerful grids and very large storage
capacities. The plant in Ibbenbüren is the most efficient power-to-gas
plant in Germany with an efficiency of energy use amounting to 86%.
The plant received an award from KlimaExpo.NRW saluting it as an
engine of progress for environmental protection.
Grid-supportive battery storage systems
RWE launched the trial operation of a pilot plant for a grid-supportive
battery storage system in 2015. The use of storage systems like this
is particularly effective where grids have not yet been specifically
designed for their new functions, for example in the case of large
quantities of local feed-in of electricity from photovoltaic plants or
wind power. These storage systems can take excess energy out of
the grid. During phases of low feed-in, electricity can be withdrawn
from storage to cover the local requirement. The application case



Content

situated in Wettringen, Münsterland, is particularly effective and economical, since it avoids what would otherwise be a need to create a
grid today until a large-scale restriction of the grid is implemented.
The mobility of the storage can be used in order to solve temporary
grid problems in other regions on the basis of this application case.
Awards for intelligent grids
In 2015, KlimaExpo.NRW conferred an award on the RWE AmpaCity
model project which uses a superconductor to enable transmission of
electric current virtually without any resistance at all. This technology
could render innercity transformer substations superfluous in the
future. RWE Germany also received the German Innovation Prize for
Climate and the Environment 2015 (IKU) for its AmpaCity model project in the category of “Environmentally Friendly Technology”.
> AmpaCity
The RWE Grid4EU project also received an award. This involves optimising the technology of existing medium-voltage grids such that
they respond more dynamically and flexibly to the fluctuating feed-in
of electricity from renewable energies. In 2015, the Grid4EU project
gained the Award of Excellence from the International Smart Grid
Action Network (ISGAN).
> Grid4EU
RWE Germany was also granted the Green Tec Award 2015 for its
Smart Country model project. This is one of the most important environmental and business prizes for the “Energy” category in Europe.
Smart Country delivers knowledge and solutions demonstrating how
the challenges confronting electricity supply in rural areas can be
overcome, as well as using intelligent solutions and new technical
components for this purpose.

83 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation



Content

INNOVATION
RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the Group is in a
position to play a role in structuring the energy system of the future. We
also promote the ideas of our employees to achieve this ambition. RWE
development teams are working in our Innovation Hub to develop new business models and bring them to market readiness within a short space of
time. We are engaged in a large number of research areas through around
200 projects that we are running in the area of research and development.
We are also continually registering new patents.

200

Buoys can measure movements of wind and waves in the offshore wind
farms distincly more cost-effectively than fixed masts. Since a test trial
with the EOLOS buoy provided good results, RWE continues the testing.

R&D projects along the
entire value chain

100%

coverage of
strategically relevant
R&D issues

4

lighthouse projects at
Innovation@RWE

More than

300

patent applications in
7 years, of which 50
in 2015

200

test households in the
EnergieKoplopers
project

84 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation

Challenge
We will not be able to master the challenges for energy supply in
the future with the products and technologies that are currently
available. Achieving an appropriate energy system demands more
climate-friendly, intelligent and efficient solutions. The challenge is
to develop these solutions rapidly and then launch them quickly in
the marketplace. Our level of achievement in this endeavour and the
quality of our solutions will have a decisive impact on the success
of our company.
Motivation and targets
We want to play a role in structuring the transformation to a more
climate-friendly electricity supply and to continue to meet the need
for energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable prices. The
only effective approach to realising our ambition is generating a continuous stream of innovations that address the challenges of our core
business and are directed towards achieving the best possible solutions for the energy system of the future. Solutions like this are the
only way of ensuring that we will be in a position to offer our customers precisely the products and services they need.



Content

The instruments used at RWE R&D also include Technology Foresight.
This involves RWE identifying technology at an early stage by drawing on a group-wide network of experts who analyse existing fields
of technology on a continuous basis, and identify and evaluate new
ones. The knowledge gained as a result of this process is supplemented by analysis of social trends with the aim of identifying options
for new and advanced developments. R&D also presents the results
of this process to other departments within the group, such as Policy,
Strategy and Innovation in order to be able to derive maximum benefit for the company from the research carried out.
Laboratory for future ideas
In 2014, RWE established the RWE Innovation Hub in order to take
up a leading position in the decentralised energy world of tomorrow.
Almost 100 experts from different departments within the Group are
working here on the development of new business ideas and bringing the best of them to market readiness. Four focus issues that are
particularly important for the future of RWE define the activities of
the Innovation Hub:
QQ Opportunities generated from the digital revolution,

Monitoring and performance measurement
Our central department of research and development (R&D) is
responsible for establishing a uniform process from planning to internal reporting that applies to all the relevant RWE companies. We use
the extent of coverage in relation to strategically relevant R&D issues
in % as the KPI and indicator for target attainment. During the year
under review, this amounted to 100%. RWE therefore occupies a leading position for R&D in the Innovation Index of the European School
of Management and Technology (ESMT) by comparison with other
energy utilities – particularly as a result of complete coverage for the
analysed areas of research and the number of patent applications.

QQ Intelligent networked solutions for residential and commercial

customers,
QQ Energy concepts for Europe’s urban centres,
QQ New products and services through the use of data.
The first products from these categories are already being used by
customers on a test basis. Wireless power charging technology is
one such example. A leading company from system gastronomy
uses this technology to offer its customers charging facilities for
mobile devices at no cost. Use in home environments is being tested
together with a furniture manufacturer through installation of the

85 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation

technology in furniture. The RWE Innovation Team is also working on
the new and secure Lemonbeat digital wireless protocol standard.
This protocol enables appropriately equipped electrical devices or
complex machines to communicate with each other. Lemonbeat has
clear advantages compared with established protocols. For example,

Apps from RWE
Digital information has become an integral
component of everyday life for most residential customers. RWE has launched a series of
apps in the marketplace for these customers:
QQ npower App NP: empowers customers to

have an overview of previous and current
bills, payments and meter readings.
QQ e-kWh: provides assistance in Germany
when drivers are looking for charging stations to power their electric cars and enables
payment to be made through a contract account, PayPal or credit card.
QQ EnergyManager: informs Dutch customers with smart meters about their monthly
electricity and gas consumption, offers comparisons with the previous year and
with model households and presents an insight into the supply of electricity using
solar panels.
QQ Közvilágítási hibabejelentő, an app of the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group: enables faults in Hungary’s street lighting system to be reported. This simplifies and improves work on repairs.



Content

unlike Bluetooth it can penetrate thick walls and communicate over
large distances. The wireless protocol is projected to be established
as an international standard.
RWE is looking for strategic partners at global Hot Spots for digital
innovations in order to accelerate the pace of development for innovative products and solutions. In Berlin, we are cooperating with the
German Tech Entrepreneurship Centre (GTEC) with the objective of
gaining access to the Berlin start-up scene. RWE Innovation Teams
are working in Berlin, in Silicon Valley in California, and in Tel Aviv
in Israel.
Projects for electromobility
RWE aims to progress electromobility on the back of networked technologies and to benefit from the sale of charging infrastructure and
mobility services. We are taking part in subsidised projects in order
to work out new opportunities with our partners. For example, the
eMERGE project is a joint venture with Daimler AG, Fraunhofer FOKUS,
PTV AG , Berlin Technical University, RWTH Aachen University and
the University of Siegen geared towards optimising the overall system of electromobility, encompassing the vehicle, energy, water,
traffic and the user. We have also been cooperating with technical
inspectorate TÜV Rheinland Industrie Service GmbH, Vattenfall
Europe Innovation GmbH, TOTAL Deutschland GmbH, Berlin Technical
University, Daimler AG and the German Aerospace Centre (DLR) to
develop another project for developing, integrating and demonstrating the Combined AC/DC Charging System (CCS Berlin). This combined charging procedure using direct and alternating current has
a standardised plug-in system, and it has been tested at seven fast
charging stations in Berlin. We received government subsidies
amounting to around € 1 million for eMERGE and some € 550,000
for CCS Berlin.

86 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation

Innovations for coal
RWE still intends to exploit opportunities to optimise potential with
the generation of electricity from coal and also develop new applications, for example in order to make use of lignite as a material. This is
the mission of our Coal Innovation Centre in Niederaußem (Germany). We are using a test rig there to trial catalytic converters for
producing naphtha, waxes, fuels, methanol, and methane from lignite-based synthesis gas. Alongside the fluidised-bed drier for moist
lignite, the test rig also represents a key component for use of the
material on a laboratory scale and provides important data for the
manufacture of customer-specific products from lignite. Over the
long term, lignite could thereby make an important contribution to
securing the supply of industrial raw materials. We are also carrying
out research into a number of techniques for the reduction of emissions with our pilot plants for CO2 scrubbing and flue-gas desulphurisation (REAplus). The integrated operation of these pilot plants at
one site in this way represents a world first.
Energy management for flexibility
Essent has joined forces with other companies and the Dutch local
authority of Heerhugowaard to launch the EnergieKoplopers project.
Some 200 households are taking part in this project. The core is centred on an energy management system which communicates with
intelligent appliances, for example heat pumps, electric boilers, fuel
cells or solar modules. The system permits maximum flexibility and
demand-oriented energy supply and use at local level. Local network
operators can sell the flexibility created by the system to reduce
peak loads, and the households receive remuneration in return.



Content

Intelligent street lighting
Intelligent street lighting was developed in the Smart City initiative
by the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group and several joint-venture partners, and
put into operation in Budapest. This system involved IT tools and
energy solutions such as Wifi, monitoring cameras, charging options
for electric cars and an emergency button integrated in street lamps.
These intelligent street lighting systems with new technologies are
now being tested in various cities in Hungary.
IT Innovation Award for RWE Generation
The IT Innovation Award conferred by the “Handelsblatt” Conference
on “Strategic IT Management” for a project run by RWE Generation in
January 2016 demonstrates that RWE innovations are already being
progressed successfully today at each value-added stage. Technicians
are able to use a tablet to enter data on location in opencast mines
and call up operating procedures, manuals and safety instructions.
The concept highlights the possibilities presented by digitisation for
empowering major efficiency enhancements and more flexibility in
the routine world of everyday work of technicians working in electricity generation. The project is initially being rolled out internally and
will then also be marketed to other mine operators and energy
generators.
Autonomous gas pressure regulatory station
Gas pressure regulator and measurement stations (GDRM) ensure
that customers receive their natural gas supplies at the right pressure
and in the desired amount. RWE has now installed the first autonomous GDRM station in the Czech town of Nehvizdy and this system
significantly reduces the operating expenses. It is connected to a
wind turbine, a photovoltaic plant and a large battery. A radio mast
provides the capability for remote control of the station.

87 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation

Measuring buoys for weather data
Since March 2015, RWE Innogy has been using meteorological buoys
manufactured by EOLOS in a research project being carried out off the
Dutch coast. The buoys transmit weather data, which is essential for
the development, construction and operation of offshore wind farms,
from the open sea to the wind-farm operators onshore. The research
project is investigating whether the buoys can deliver precise and reliable measurement data that is comparable to that produced with the
fixed masts that have been used to date. This would enable them to
be operated more cost-effectively and with greater environmental
compatibility.



Content

88 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Overview of our ten areas for action and our CR objectives | Innovation

INTERVIEW

RWE INNOVATION HUB



Content

RWE has merged a number of different innovation activities in the RWE Innovation Hub. This is intended to strengthen the development
of new products and new business models. How does this concept work? Our Editorial Team talked to Dr Inken Braunschmidt, Head of the
RWE Innovation Hub.

Dr Inken Braunschmidt,
Head of the RWE Innovation Hub

The interview was conducted by
Franziska Klapper,
RWE Corporate Responsibility

The future of the energy system is uncertain, the conventional business with electricity generation is not going well. What role can the
RWE Innovation Hub play?
BRAUNSCHMIDT: We are looking at new business models for the future
energy system. Renewable energies, grids and supply will play an
even more important role in the future. Our aim is to drive forward
the development in these areas through our innovations – most
importantly in retail business with consumers. The RWE Innovation
Hub is intended to contribute to identifying new market opportunities and making use of these.
Where can you identify these innovations?
BRAUNSCHMIDT: Speed is of the utmost importance in relation to
innovations. We are therefore doing a lot of our work in networks
and with partners in innovation ecosystems. We have established a
presence in Silicon Valley in California, in Tel Aviv in Israel and in Berlin. We are identifying new digital solutions in these locations. The
transfer of ideas to operating business is the key factor in this process. This can only succeed if colleagues from different divisions at
RWE cooperate on developing these areas of interest. 90 colleagues
are working in the RWE Innovation Hub.

How do you distinguish the concept from previous innovation
activities?
BRAUNSCHMIDT: RWE has always been an innovative company. We are
developing new solutions and at the same time implementing them
on a large scale. Just think for a moment about climate protection
technologies in lignite originating from our Coal Innovation Centre.
By the same token, a new approach is being adopted in our work on
so-called disruptive innovations which compete with our existing
business areas and may even displace them.
Have you defined focuses? Or is it okay to have a little chaos in
this process?
BRAUNSCHMIDT: It is important that there is scope for thinking outside the box, designing new ideas and rejecting them. At the same
time, we are focusing our efforts and we have defined key areas of
importance. One such area is called Urban Concepts. We are developing business models here which arise from the trend towards increasingly large metropolises and urban areas. More than 60% of the
global population will already be living in such “megacities” by the
year 2030. We want to develop solutions for these conurbations.
These solutions will be in the area of energy but they will also be
associated with logistics, security, communication and mobility.

89 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Report profile



Content

ABOUT THIS REPORT
Report profile
This report entitled “Our Responsibility. Report 2015” is aimed at
analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and
our workforce, customers and suppliers, policymakers and government agencies and the people living in the regions where we do
business. It describes the most important social, environmental and
economic challenges facing our core business, the conflicting aims
that can arise, and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we
have developed in response.
The report is published in pdf format. This report was audited
throughout by the accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)
in conformity with ISAE 3000 (p. 91). The subject of the report essentially focused on the criteria “Inclusion of stakeholders”, “Sustainability context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” of the GRI G4. The CR
Report includes an overview of all the important indicators (p. 4). We
provide detailed indicators for the years 2006 to 2015 interactively with
the indicator tool and as an Excel download.

GRI G4-18

Approach
We developed our CR Strategy on the basis of the challenges posed
by our business and taking account of the general conditions and
challenges prevailing in individual regions. The report is introduced
with a portrait of the RWE Group and a detailed description of the
greatest challenges along our value chain and the challenges in the
regions where we are operating. The structure of the report is based
on the Ten Areas for Action of the CR Strategy. We use a Materiality
Analysis to assess the relevance of individual Areas for Action in
order to evaluate the opportunities of the RWE Group for exerting
influence and gauge the expectations of stakeholders for our company. The report also serves as our progress report for the Global
Compact of the United Nations (p. 97).

90 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Report profile

Basic principles
The report is based on our CR Strategy and was developed out of
findings from our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. The relevant
data are presented in line with the latest guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) to allow our readers to compare our performance with that of other companies. We explain how we have implemented these guidelines and the requirements of G4 Electric Utilities
Sector Disclosures in the GRI G4 Content Index (p. 94). The report
was drawn up taking account of the option “In accordance” core.
Data
The period under review is fiscal 2015, which began on 1 January
and ended on 31 December. The data provided in this report relate
to all affiliated companies of the RWE Group which are included in
the consolidated financial statements. Any deviations from this are
clearly stated. The financial data were taken from the RWE Annual
Report 2015. We present financial data denominated in the relevant
national currency and have converted these based on the average
annual values for 2015 (1 US dollar = € 0.91, 1 UK pound sterling =
€ 1.38, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.67, 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32,
1 Polish zloty = € 0.24).

GRI G4-17



Content

For reference
This report is published in German and English. The Executive Board
of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. The editorial
deadline was on 29 February 2016. This report continues our policy
of annual reporting. The next report will be published in the spring
of 2017. The term “employee” refers to male and female employees.
> Archive CR Reports
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the future
development of the RWE Group and its companies as well as economic and political developments. These statements are assessments
that we have made based on information available at the time this
report was drawn up. In the event that the underlying assumptions
do not materialise or additional risks arise, actual performance may
deviate from the performance expected at present. We are therefore
unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever for the accuracy of
these statements.

91 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Assurance Report



Content

Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report

To RWE AG, Essen
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement
on the sustainability information marked with
in the Corporate
Responsibility Report (hereafter the “CR- Report”) of RWE AG, Essen
(hereafter the “Company”) for the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015.1
Management’s Responsibility
Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the CR- Report in accordance with the criteria as set out
in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of
the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the CR- Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which
are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility
includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the CR-Report, which is free of
material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors.

Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding
independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German
Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für
Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well
as the joint opinion of the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of
German Public Auditors; WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer
(Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK
und des IDW: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der
Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains
a comprehensive system of quality control including documented
policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.
Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability
information marked with
in the CR-Report based on our work
performed.

1	Our engagement applies to the German version of the CR-Report. This text is a translation of the Independent
Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative.

92 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Assurance Report

Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on
external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the
CR-Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we
plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us
to believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the
CR-Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement
and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on
the practitioner's judgement. This includes the assessment of the
risks of material misstatements of the sustainability information
marked with
in the CR-Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the
following procedures:
QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability

organization and of the stakeholder engagement
QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the CRReport regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal
control system and selected sustainability information



Content

QQ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of

the CR-Report
QQ Comparison of selected sustainability information with corre-

sponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the
group management report
QQ Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability
information in the Report regarding the sustainability performance
Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the CR-Report of the Company for the
period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.
Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following
recommendations:
QQ Further focusing, developing and formalizing internal control

systems at corporate level and at the level of individual sites and
automatization of critical interfaces
QQ Establishment of a process to update continuously all handbooks
and process descriptions that are relevant for any CR-data
QQ Increase linkage between financial and non-financial information
for controlling and reporting purposes.

93 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Assurance Report



Restriction on Use and Distribution
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with
RWE AG. The audit has been performed for purposes of RWE AG and
is solely intended to inform RWE AG about the results of the assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to
base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.

Frankfurt, March 16, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

sgn. Michael Conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

sgn. ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch

Content

94 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index



GRI G4 Content Index - Summary
“Our responsibility. Report 2015” was prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
taking account of the option “In accordance” core. The G4 Guidelines valid since May 2013 have been applied. The “G4 Sector
Disclosure” for Electric Utilities was also applied.

Page

Page

General Standard Disclosures

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

Strategy and Analysis

G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements

90; AR 151-158

G4-18 Process for defining the report content

5, 35-38, 89

G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker

1 f.

Organisational Profile

G4-19 Material Aspects identified

6-11, 35-38

G4-3 Name of the organisation

RWE Group

G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organisation

6-11, 35-38

G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services

3

G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization

6-11, 35-38

G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters

Essen, Germany

G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports

99

G4-6 Countries with significant operations

14

G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries

5

G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form

RWE AG; AR 14

Stakeholder Engagement

G4-8 Markets served

14; Key Data Tool

G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged

29

G4-9 Scale of the organisation

3, 14; Key Data Tool; AR 49 f., 96

G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders

29, 35; Online Index

G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region

Key Data Tool; Online Index;
AR 58

G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency

29-34, 35

G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response 25, 29-31, 37 f.

G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements

99,8%; Online Index

G4-12 Description of the supply chain

70-72

G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period

AR 19-20, 38-41, 100-102

G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle

26, 50, 76; AR 78-80

G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation endorses

24, 53, 70-72

G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations

70-72; Online Index

EU1 Installed capacity

3, 14 f., 17, 19, 21 f.;
Key Data Tool; Online Index

EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source

8; Key Data Tool; AR 44 f.

Governance

EU3 Residential, industrial and commercial customer accounts

3, 10, 14; Key Data Tool; AR 47-49

G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest governance body

EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines

9, 15, 21; Online Index

Ethics and Integrity

EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances

Key Data Tool; AR 46

G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour

Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period

90

G4-29 Date of most recent previous report

April 2015

G4-30 Reporting cycle

annually

G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report

101

G4-32 GRI Content Index chosen for the “In accordance” option

89, 94-96

G4-33 External verification of the report

89, 91-93

24; AR 7-10

26, 70

Content

95 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index



Page
Specific Standard Disclosures
Economic

Page
Aspect: Emissions – Management Approach

39, 41–43, 50–52

G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

43; Key Data Tool; Online Index

Aspect: Economic Performance – Management Approach

12–13

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

43; Key Data Tool

G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed

54 f., 58; Key Data Tool

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)

43; Key Data Tool

G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change

42–45; Key Data Tool; Online Index;
AR 18, 20–22, 30 f., 33 f., 36 f., 83

G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

42–43; Key Data Tool

G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

42–43

G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations

Key Data Tool; AR 128–132

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)

Online Index

G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from governments

Online Index; AR 14, 26
39, 54 f.; Online Index

G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions

52; Key Data Tool; Online Index

Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts – Management Approach

Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management Approach

39, 50–53

G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided

54–58

G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination

Key Data Tool; Online Index

G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts

54–56

G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method

Key Data Tool; Online Index

Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management Approach

40, 69–70

G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills

None; Online Index

G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers*

Online Index

Aspect: Products and Services – Management Approach

39, 41–43

Aspect: Availability and Reliability – Management Approach

79–81

G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services

41–43, 47–49, 51 f.

EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand*

16, 19, 44 f., 48

Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach

39, 50 f.

Aspect: Demand-Side Management – Management Approach

59 f., 61–63, 84–86

Aspect: Research and Development – Management Approach

83 f.; AR 23–27

Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – Management Approach

AR 127, 132–134

Aspect: System Efficiency of the power plant portfolio and distribution –
Management Approach

39, 47–48, 82

G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations None; Online Index
Aspect: Overall – Management Approach

39, 50 f.

G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments

Key Data Tool

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Management Approach

40, 70–72
71–72

EU11 Average generation efficiency

48 f.

G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria

EU12 Transmission and distribution losses

Online Index

G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain*

71–72

Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach

26

Environmental
Aspect: Energy – Management Approach

39, 47–49

G4-EN34 Formal grievances about environmental impacts**

G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation

407,4 TWh = 1.466,6 PJ; Key Data Tool

Labour Practices and Decent Work

Aspect: Water – Management Approach

39, 50 f., 53

Aspect: Employment – Management Approach

40, 65–67

G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source

Key Data Tool; Online Index

G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover*

4; Key Data Tool

Aspect: Biodiversity – Management Approach

39, 50 f., 53

EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years

Key Data Tool

G4-EN11 Operational sites in protected areas

Online Index

EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees

Online Index

G4-EN12 Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value

39, 50 f., 53

EU18 Health and safety training of contractor and subcontractor employees

77; Online Index

EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats

53; Online Index

Aspect: Labour/Management Relations – Management Approach

65 f.

G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes

66; Online Index

Content

96 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | GRI G4 Content Index



Page

Page

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management Approach

40, 75 f.

Aspect: Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response – Management Approach

27

G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities*

76–77; Key Data Tool

Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management Approach

26 f.

G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases

76

27; Online Index

Aspect: Training and Education – Management Approach

66 f.; Online Index

G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and
risks identified*

G4-LA10 Programmes that support the continued employability of employees

66 f.; Online Index

G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption*

26 f.

Aspect: Public Policy – Management Approach

27 f., 29, 32–34

G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions

Online Index

Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour – Management Approach

26

G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly
practices

AR 84, 144

Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach

26 f.

G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations

Keine; Online Index

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management Approach

40, 70–72

G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for
impacts on society

71–72

G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken*

71–72

Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – Management Approach

26

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management Approach

65–68

G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees
by indicators of diversity*

68; Key Data Tool;
AR 7, 177–179

Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management Approach

Online Index

G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men

Online Index

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – Management Approach

40, 70–72

G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices
criteria

71–72

G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labour practices in the supply chain*

71–72

Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach

26

G4-LA16 Formal grievances about labour practices**
Human Rights
Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment – Management Approach

40, 70–72

G4-SO11 Number of formal grievances about impacts on society**

G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights
criteria

71–72

Product Responsibility

G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain*

71–72

Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach

26

G4-HR12 Formal grievances about human rights impacts**
Society
Aspect: Local Communities – Management Approach

32 f., 39, 54 f.

G4-SO1 P ercentage of operations with implemented local community
engagement, impact assessments, and development programs

29, 32 f., 54 f.; Online Index

G4-SO2 O
 perations with actual and potential negative impacts on local
communities

27, 50; Online Index

EU22 Number of people displaced and compensation

Ca. 220; Online Index

AR
= Annual Report 2015
Online Index = detailed GRI Index

* = Status: partially reported
** = not reported

Content

Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – Management Approach

39, 59–61

G4-PR3 Principles/procedures for product and service information and labelling

Online Index

G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction

60 f.

Aspect: Customer Privacy – Management Approach

27 f., 62, 64

G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy**
Aspect: Access – Management Approach

79–81

EU28 Power outage frequency

Online Index

EU29 Average power outage duration

80

A > detailed GRI Index including additional information and explanations in case of only partial reporting or no
reporting is available on the Internet. This detailed index was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service,
and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27).

97 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015



Content

UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015
RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants to make a contribution with the worldwide implementation of its ten principles. These have
been adopted word for word in the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the guidelines, programmes and management systems which
we have also introduced with our sphere of influence. The table also highlights the measures that have been taken during the period under review and
the specific results obtained.

Principle

Systems

Measures

Results

Principle 1: Support of human rights

Social Charter and minimum standards for restructuring operations carried out for the European companies in the RWE Group,
covering 99.8% of the workforce.

Restructuring with social compensation by working together
with employee representatives and unions (p. 66)

Compliance with principles 1 – 5 assured through national legislation in Europe, cooperation with the unions, and RWE’s own principles which apply to all employees of the company

Principle 2: Elimination of human rights violations

ILO core standards are defined for the Social Charter

Co-founder of Bettercoal, auditing of coal mines, application of
information for “Counterparty Risk Assessment” (p. 71)

Supplier management (p. 69 ff.)

Assessment and audit of suppliers (p. 70 ff.)

Principle 3: Ensuring freedom of association

Pay and social benefits above the national average
12 self and site assessments available through Bettercoal
(S. 69 ff.)

Principle 4: Abolition of all forms of forced labour

Principle 5: Abolition of child labour

Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination

Diversity management (S. 67 f.)

Establishment of the “Inclusive Culture Focus Group” (p. 68)

Group-wide women’s network

Percentage of women in management positions increased to
15.2% (p. 68)
Percentage of people with severe disabilities with 6.2% in
Germany virtually constant

Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection

Environmental management (p. 50 ff.)
Strategy for reducing the CO2 emission factor (p. 41 ff.)
Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk
management (p. 43)

Climate protection, energy efficiency and environmental protection and biodiversity as part of the CR Programme (p. 39)
Cooperation with IUCN concluded (p. 53)
Adoption of a group-wide Biodiversity Guideline (p. 53)
Annual audit for setting up environmental management systems
in conformity with ISO 14001 (p. 51)

Reduction in specific emissions of the air pollutants NOX by
more than 8% and SO2 by more than 20% (p. 52)

98 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2015

Principle

Systems

Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental
responsibility



Content

Measures

Results

Consultancy and services for intelligent use of energy with residential and commercial customers (p. 62 f.)

More than 60,000 energy consultancy sessions in Germany
(p. 59)

Initiative for energy education 3malE (p. 57)

Offerings for controlling energy for commercial customers
(p. 63)

RWE Foundation for Energy and Society (p. 58)

Energy education packages for children and teenagers (p. 57)
Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmental
friendly technologies

Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission factor (p. 41 ff.)

Expansion of renewables-based energies (p. 44 f.)

Modernisation of the power plant portfolio (p. 44)

Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk management (p. 43)

New business ideas in four focus themes of the Innovation Hub
(p. 84 f.)

Expansion of installed output of renewable energies by 469 MW
(p. 44)

Innovation management (p. 83 ff.)

Participation in sponsored projects for networking existing technologies for electromobility (p. 86)

Range of intelligent energy products such as RWE SmartHome
or Energy Control (p. 61)

Research on using lignite as a material (p. 86)

Provider and operator of 4,900 charging points in Europe

RWE Code of Conduct and Group guidelines for prevention of
corruption and organisation regulations (p. 26)

Drawing up detailed corruption risk scenarios with other consolidated companies (p. 27)

Holding risk workshops in individual Group companies (p. 27)

Audited Compliance Management System for anti-corruption in
accordance with the IDW Audit Standard promulgated by the
Institute of German Public Auditors (p. 27)

Training of the workforce with an Intranet-based training programme and on-site training (p. 26 f.)

Innovation Hub (p. 84 f.)

Principle 10: Anti-corruption measures

Compliance training sessions for around 2,800 employees in
Germany and around 500 employees in other regions where
RWE operates, in on-site events (p. 27)

99 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Explanations of the indicators



Content

Explanations of the indicators
The following table provides explanations of our indicators. They are sorted according to the sequence in the indicator tool.
Indicator category

Explanations

Electricity generation

Including electricity procured from power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the
business year 2015, this electricity generation amounted to 11.1 billion kWh (previous year: 15.9 billion kWh) in the Conventional Electricity Generation
Division, of which 7.7 billion kWh was generated from hard coal.
Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Power plant capacities

Including capacities of power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. On 31 December,
2015, this electricity generating capacity amounted to 4,629 MW (previous year: 4,607 MW), of which 2,173 MW were based on hard coal (previous year:
2,151 MW).
Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

CO2 emissions

Including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the year under review, these
plants produced 6.9 million mt of CO2 (previous year: 13.1 million mt). 2014 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2015.
Calculated on the basis of electricity production, not including emissions from biogenic fuels.
Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transmission, electricity generation) including power plants not owned by RWE that we can
deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements.
Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties.
Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties,
the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party grids, from the production of used fuel, as well as from the consumption of gas
sold to customers.
Partly adjusted values for 2013 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Pollutant emissions

Not including gas-fired plants for blast furnaces.

Fuels

Fiscal 2007, adjusted since “Our Responsibility. Report 2007”.
Fossil fuels used, without biomass.

Waste

Owing to a change in the regulatory rules, the use of ash to fill disused opencast mines has no longer counted as recycling since 2010

Water

Difference between water withdrawals for power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with seawater cooling.

Reportable nuclear incidents at our
nuclear power stations (INES)

INES: International Nuclear Event Scale.

GRI G4-22

100 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

About this Report | Explanations of the indicators

Indicator category

Explanations

Workforce

FTE = Full-Time Equivalent: converted to full-time positions.



Content

2009 excluding Essent; In 2015, encompasses the top four management levels.
Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).
Occupational Health and Safety

Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours); occupational accidents from
2012 onwards including employees of contractors.
Including employees of contractors.

Staff costs

Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Customers

Not including non-controlling interests

External electricity and gas sales volume

Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Financial indicators

Foundation of RWE Innogy in February 2008
Countries rated with a score of at least 60 points on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption.
Since 2008, EBITDA has also included operating income from investments.
Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11
(see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Value Management

Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11
(see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Chash flow/capital expenditure/

Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11
(see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

depreciation and amortisation
Asset/capital structure

Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11
(see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).

Dividend/Payout

Dividend proposal for the fiscal year 2015 of RWE AG, subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016: Dividend of € 0 per common
share, dividend of € 0.13 per preference share.

Value added

2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, Partly adjusted values for 2013 on
account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).
Only the taxes actually paid are included, not tax expenditure, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2007 adjusted in accordance
with the Annual Report 2008, Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS
11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41).
2008 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2009, 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued
operations (American Water), 2015 proposed dividend.

101 Our Responsibility. Report 2015

Contact and imprint



CONTACT AND IMPRINT
Published by
RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Opernplatz 1
45128 Essen
Germany
Phone +49 201 12-00
Email responsibility@rwe.com

Dr Marita Hilgenstock
Phone +49 201 12-15251
EMail marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com

Editorial office
RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Group Corporate Responsibility

Responsible
Professor Dr Henning Rentz
Phone +49 201 12-15818
EMail henning.rentz@rwe.com

Dr Matthias Kussin
Phone +49 201 12-15302
EMail matthias.kussin@rwe.com
Franziska Klapper
Phone +49 201 12-17417
EMail franziska.klapper@rwe.com
Stefanie Dudley
Phone +49 201 12-15594
EMail stefanie.dudley@rwe.com
Dr Thomas Gremme
Phone +49 201 12-15634
EMail thomas.gremme@rwe.com

Ines Hasenbusch
Phone +49 201 12-17459
EMail ines.hasenbusch@rwe.com

Concept, texts, layout in cooperation with
akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH
Munich
www.akzente.de
Translation by Tristam Carrington-Windo
Creation of the data tool in cooperation with
NEW.EGO GmbH
Munich
www.newego.de
Editorial Deadline
29 February 2016

Content

STAY IN DIALOGUE
responsibility@rwe.com

RWE Aktiengesellschaft
Opernplatz 1
45128 Essen
Germany
T +49 201 12-00
I www.rwe.com

