sap integrated report 2014
Financial and Non-Financial Performance

Your Personal Report

www.sapintegratedreport.com

About This Integrated Report
In this, our third integrated report, we show how we create value
through financial, social, and environmental measures. In
addition, we describe how we identify what is material for our
sustainable business success.

About Our Reporting ›
This integrated report meets financial and non­
financial reporting frameworks.

GRI Index and United
Nations Global Compact ›
We meet established standards of financial
and non­financial reporting.

About This Integrated Report
About This Report

CONTENT
Since 2012, we have reported on our full year financial, social, and environmental performance
in one integrated report (“SAP Integrated Report”). The SAP Integrated Report 2014 contains a
comprehensive and integrated presentation of our performance in 2014 based on both financial
and non­financial measures and is exclusively available online. Additionally, we continue to
provide the “SAP Annual Report 2014.” This report is an excerpt from the SAP Integrated
Report 2014 which comprises all of the information legally required to be presented to our
shareholders. This SAP Annual Report 2014 is available in PDF format as well as in print.
The financial reporting presented in the SAP Integrated Report includes our Consolidated
Financial Statements, our combined Management Report, and certain financial measures
derived from our management reporting. The non­financial data presented includes aspects of
intellectual, human, social and relationship, and environmental capitals derived from our
materiality assessment.
Similar to 2013, our online SAP Integrated Report is aligned with the content elements
suggested in the International Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC).
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Our combined Management Report is prepared in accordance with sections 315 and 315a of
the German Commercial Code and German Accounting Standards No. 17 and 20. The
combined Management Report is also a management commentary complying with the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Practice Statement Management
Commentary.
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. Internal control
over financial reporting ensures the reliability of the information presented in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Our executive management has confirmed the effectiveness of our
internal controls over financial reporting.
The social and environmental data and information included in the SAP Integrated Report is
prepared in accordance with the core option of the international guidelines G4 of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI). We applied the GRI principles for defining report content
(sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, and completeness). We applied
the principle of sustainability context in a number of ways, such as looking at global issues or
trends including climate change and demographic shifts. For example, we assessed our

greenhouse gas emissions in the context of the emissions of the entire information and
communications technology landscape, with particular focus on the abatement potential of the
industry. When it comes to completeness, we recognize that while we comply with this principle
in reporting on our own operations, we are still developing methodologies to reliably quantify
our impact through our solutions. In addition, the non­financial information has been prepared
by applying the principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness. Greenhouse gas data
was prepared based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
DATA
All financial and non­financial data and information for the reporting period was collected and/or
reported utilizing SAP software solutions and was sourced from the responsible business units.
The reporting period is fiscal year 2014. The report encompasses SAP SE and all subsidiaries
of the SAP Group.
To make this report as current as possible, we have included relevant information available up
to the auditor’s opinion and the responsibility statement dated February 19, 2015. The report is
available in English and in German.
INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND ASSURANCE
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited our Consolidated Financial Statements
and our combined Management Report (see the Independent Auditor’s Report). Additionally,
KPMG has provided assurance on selected non­financial, social, and environmental data and
information in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000, and 3410 (“Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”), two pertinent
standards for the assurance of sustainability reporting. Where our SAP Integrated Report
makes reference to our SAP public Web site, that Web site information is unaudited. Both the
Independent Auditor’s Report and the Independent Assurance Report for non­financial
information are available in the Independent Auditor's Report and Independent Assurance
Report section.
For more information about the reasons we publish an integrated report, about our materiality
assessment, and related stakeholder engagement, see the About Integrated Reporting,
Materiality, and Stakeholder Engagement sections.

About This Integrated Report
Materiality

In 2013, we revised our approach to assessing the materiality of issues that are relevant to our
innovation and sustainable growth. This change reflects the updated guidelines from the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4, which define material issues as those that “reflect an
organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or substantively
influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” We also conduct a materiality
assessment for our financial reporting based on the International Financial Reporting
Standards. The process described here pertains to issues that fall outside these standards.
For SAP, the key change in the GRI G4 materiality methodology is the focus on impacts,
whereas in the past we looked more at our responsibilities and potential for innovation
regarding various issues. We have started to assess our economic, social, and environmental
impacts from two distinct points of view: SAP as a company (which includes our operations and
supply chain) and SAP as a solution provider (which is how we serve our customers). Our goal
is to determine materiality based on what is most relevant to our core business strategy. By
analyzing our impacts as a solution provider, we can incorporate our conclusions as we work to
create a truly sustainable strategy. Such a strategy will enable us to holistically manage the
economic, environmental, and social contexts in which we operate.
ASSESSING AND RATING THE RELEVANCE OF NUMEROUS ISSUES
We followed the GRI G4 guidelines to undertake a four­step process in assessing the
materiality of issues: Review of previous reports, identification, prioritization, and validation by
our chief sustainability officer. We initially identified approximately 60 issues for consideration,
from economic performance and procurement practices to water consumption, emissions,
waste, and human rights. We chose our initial list from issues referenced in the GRI G4
guidelines, as well as those that emerged from our stakeholder engagement, our conversations
with our sustainability advisory panel, prior materiality assessments, the review of previous
reports (including an analysis of which content was read most often), and the draft issues
identified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the Technology and
Communications sector.
We then used three main criteria to evaluate each issue, assessing how mission­critical each is
to SAP, how relevant each is to our financial performance, and what financial, social or and
environmental impact we create. We weighed all stakeholder feedback equally as we
determined whether an issue substantively influences stakeholders’ assessments and
decisions and if so, whether that influence is low, medium, or high. Our 2014 review confirmed
our identified most material topics, which are also clearly linked to our four financial and non­
financial core objectives.

DRAWING CONCLUSIONS AND UNDERSTANDING THE IMPLICATIONS OF OUR
ASSESSMENT
We identified six main areas that are material to SAP as a company. For the most part, these
are consistent with our past assessments and comprise:
Human capital management – Helps us ensure we employ, develop, and retain the very
best talent within our company and be attractive to potential employees
Intellectual capital management – Helps us innovate and deliver new solutions with the
highest quality through continuous organizational learning, people development, and
suitable internal structures and processes. Such capital also leads to increased customer
loyalty
Security and privacy – Ensures we design and deliver our solutions in ways that afford the
very highest levels of data security and privacy control
Financial performance – Mirrors the success of our strategy and ensures our long­term
viability
Business conduct – Ensures we conduct our business activities while upholding the
highest levels of behavior, as set out in the SAP Code of Business Conduct for Employees
and other company policies
Climate and energy – Helps us offer solutions to our customers for reducing energy
consumption and emissions, find ways to minimize the environmental impact of our solutions
and transform our corporate operations accordingly
While these issues are critical for us as a company, we see our solutions touching on a broad
range of issues that are highly material to our customers – from financial viability to natural
resources, energy, and human rights. While we do not yet offer solutions in all of these areas,
technology such as SAP HANA and our Cloud offerings hold enormous potential to help our
customers improve and differentiate their own operations and impacts. For example, our
software already enables many of the world’s largest companies to better measure, track, and
manage their energy usage and carbon emissions, as well as increase their efficiency in a host
of areas. Addressing our most material impacts means finding additional ways to support our
customers in becoming more sustainable organizations. In this sense, our materiality
assessment helps point the way to creating a truly integrated strategy, in which sustainability is
seamlessly connected to how we serve our customers and drive our own long­term success.
APPLYING OUR ASSESSMENT TO FURTHER DEVELOP AN INTEGRATED STRATEGY
Our environmental and social performance remains critically important to SAP. We have gained
important insights into helping our customers tackle challenges by doing so ourselves. In
addition, working to become more sustainable has fed our innovation and improved our bottom
line. SAP’s sustainability performance, as well as our work to create a sustainable corporate
strategy, is also of increased importance to investors and newer generations of talent we want
to attract and hire. At the same time, we recognize that it is in our role of solution provider that
we continue on the path to creating the greatest customer value and designing our integrated
strategy.
As noted above, we have already headed down this path with a number of our solutions, which
are enabling our customers to comply with regulation, become more efficient, operate more
sustainably, and begin to transform how business is conducted. We also have more to do – for
example, we have not yet created a methodology to quantify our impact as a solution provider.
To do so, we will continue to work with customers and partners. Namely, we need to
understand our impacts in the context of the limits and demands of economic, environmental,
and social resources. We also need to frame these impacts in terms of broader sustainable

development conditions and goals. In addition, we must explain our approach to our employees
and other key stakeholders to enlist them in realizing our vision “help the world run better and
improve people’s lives”. We observe an increasing trend in our customer base to initiate
business transformations based on new sustainable corporate strategies. Supporting our
customers with our solutions enables them to execute accordingly and helps us on our journey
to fulfill our vision.
To achieve these goals, we will continue to drive behavioral change throughout SAP through
bottom­up strategies such as employee engagement, education, and the promotion of peer
leadership and role models. We will also continue to emphasize co­innovation with our
customers, as customers are the means through which we can help create long­term,
sustainable change. Specifically, we will work with our customers to provide technology
innovations that act as an engine of business transformation and help them navigate global
trends. We will continue to develop criteria to evaluate our sustainability impacts to help us
inform and refine our materiality assessment.

About This Integrated Report
General Information about This Management Report

BASIS OF PRESENTATION
This combined group management report by the SAP Group (collectively, “we,” “us,” “our,”
“SAP,” “Group,” or “Company”) and management report of SAP SE has been prepared in
accordance with sections 289, 315, and 315a of the German Commercial Code and German
Accounting Standards (GAS) No. 17 and 20. The management report is also a management
commentary complying with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Practice
Statement Management Commentary.
All of the information in this report relates to the situation on December 31, 2014, or the fiscal
year ended on that date, unless otherwise stated.
The report contains references to additional information in other parts of the SAP Integrated
Report that is available online. This additional information is not part of the management report.
FORWARD­LOOKING STATEMENTS
This management report contains forward­looking statements and information based on the
beliefs of, and assumptions made by, our management using information currently available to
them. Any statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are forward­looking
statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We have
based these forward­looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, and
projections about future conditions and events. As a result, our forward­looking statements and
information are subject to uncertainties and risks, many of which are beyond our control. If one
or more of these uncertainties or risks materializes, or if management’s underlying assumptions
prove incorrect, our actual results could differ materially from those described in or inferred from
our forward­looking statements and information. We describe these risks and uncertainties in
the Risk Management and Risks section.
The words “aim,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “counting on,” “is
confident,” “development,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future trends,” “guidance,” “intend,”
“may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “want,” “will,”
“would,” and similar expressions as they relate to us are intended to identify such forward­
looking statements. Such statements include, for example, those made in the Operating
Results section, our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pursuant to the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), namely IFRS 7 and related statements in
our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Expected Developments and
Opportunities section, the Risk Management and Risks section, and other forward­looking
information appearing in other parts of this report. To fully consider the factors that could affect

our future financial results, both this report and our Annual Report on Form 20­F should be
considered, as well as all of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward­looking
statements, which speak only as of the date specified or the date of this report. We undertake
no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward­looking statements as a result of new
information that we receive about conditions that existed upon issuance of this report, future
events, or otherwise unless we are required to do so by law.
This report includes statistical data about the IT industry and global economic trends that
comes from information published by sources including International Data Corporation (IDC), a
provider of market information and advisory services for the information technology,
telecommunications, and consumer technology markets; the European Central Bank (ECB);
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This type of data represents only the estimates of
IDC, ECB, IMF, and other sources of industry data. SAP does not adopt or endorse any of the
statistical information provided by sources such as IDC, ECB, IMF, or other similar sources that
is contained in this report. In addition, although we believe that data from these sources is
generally reliable, this type of data is imprecise. We caution readers not to place undue reliance
on this data.

About This Integrated Report
Responsibility Statement

To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the
consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, finances, and
operating results of the Group, and the management report of the Group and SAP SE includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group
and SAP SE, together with a description of the material opportunities and risks associated with
the expected development of the Group and SAP SE.
Walldorf, February 19, 2015
SAP SE
Walldorf, Baden
The Executive Board
Bill McDermott

Robert Enslin

Bernd Leukert

Luka Mucic

Gerhard Oswald

About This Integrated Report
Governance for Integrated Reporting

MANAGEMENT’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ON THE SAP INTEGRATED REPORT 2014
The International Integrated Reporting (<IR>) Framework launched by the International
Integrated Reporting Council in December 2013 requires that management should include a
statement regarding an integrated report. For 2014, that statement is as follows:
The SAP Integrated Report 2014 is available online only. The collective mind of the SAP
Executive Board is the basis for this integrated report. The Executive Board is aware of its
responsibility to ensure the integrity of the integrated report.
Building on our 2013 report, our 2014 integrated report is structured along the content elements
suggested in the <IR> Framework. We have applied the Guiding Principles of <IR>, but we also
must ensure our compliance with legal requirements, such as the provisions regarding financial
reporting in the German Commercial Code as set out in detail in the German Accounting
Standard 20 “Management Report,” while balancing other reporting standards such as the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines with the <IR> Framework.
Our Executive Board has reviewed the SAP Integrated Report 2014, including the Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Combined Management Report, as well as the other additional
content related to the GRI G4 content index.
Our Executive Board believes that the integrated report is presented in accordance with the
<IR> Framework as far as possible given the aforementioned restrictions. We will continue to
strive for further alignment with the <IR> Framework in future reports.

About This Integrated Report
Independent Auditor’s Report

TO SAP SE
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of SAP SE, Walldorf
(“SAP” or “the Company”), and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of
financial position as of December 31, 2014, and the consolidated income statement, the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in
equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the notes to the consolidated financial
statements for the year then ended.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements. This
includes the responsibility that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of
the Company’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”),
the supplementary provisions of German law to be applied in accordance with the German
Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, “HGB”), section 315a (1), and IFRSs as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board. Management’s responsibility includes maintaining
such internal control as management determines necessary to enable the preparation of
consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with HGB, section 317, and German generally
accepted standards for the audit of consolidated financial statements, promulgated by the
Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“IDW”), and in supplementary compliance with International
Standards on Auditing and standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the
auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement in the
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the
consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit

procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In accordance with HGB, section 322 (3) sentence 1, we declare that our audit of the
consolidated financial statements has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on our audit, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair
view of the Company’s net assets and financial position as of December 31, 2014; and of its
results of operations for the year then ended, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU,
the supplementary provisions of German law to be applied in accordance with HGB, section
315a (1), and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Report on the Management Report
We have audited the accompanying combined management report for SAP Group and SAP SE
(“management report”) for the business year ended December 31, 2014.
Management’s Responsibility for the Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of the management report in accordance with
the provisions of German law to be applied in accordance with HGB, section 315a (1), the
German Accounting Standards Nos. 17 and 20 (GAS 17, GAS 20) and the provisions of the
IFRS Practice Statement Management Commentary.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this management report based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of the management report in accordance with HGB, section 317 (2), and
German generally accepted standards for the audit of management reports promulgated by the
IDW. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit of the management report in
such a way that we obtain reasonable assurance about whether the management report is
consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the findings from our audit of the
consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable understanding of the
Company’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In accordance with HGB, section 322 (3) sentence 1, we declare that our audit has not led to
any reservations.
In our opinion, based on our audit of the consolidated financial statements and the
management report, the management report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements and as a whole, provides a suitable view of the Company’s position and suitably
presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
Report on the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting in the
Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the standards of the Public

Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
We have audited SAP’s internal control over financial reporting in the consolidated financial
statements as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control
Management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting in
the consolidated financial statements, and for the assessment of its effectiveness, as included
in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting in the consolidated financial statements is
a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
in the consolidated financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting in the consolidated
financial statements may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on SAP’s internal control over financial reporting in
the consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting in the consolidated
financial statements was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting in the consolidated financial
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit
also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, SAP maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria
established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

Mannheim, February 19, 2015
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Dr. Gutsche
Wirtschaftsprüfer
Dr. Böttcher
Wirtschaftsprüfer

About This Integrated Report
Independent Assurance Report

TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF SAP SE, WALLDORF
We were engaged to provide assurance on selected 2014 sustainability information published
on SAP’s 2014 Integrated Reporting web pages under www.sapintegratedreport.com/2014/en/
of SAP SE (in the following ‘SAP’). The Executive Board of SAP is responsible for the
appropriateness of the preparation and presentation of qualitative claims and the
appropriateness of the determination and presentation of quantitative indicators on
sustainability information in accordance with the reporting criteria. This responsibility includes
the conception, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes for ensuring
adherence to sustainability reporting principles when determining material report contents. Our
responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the selected 2014 sustainability information
published on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web pages.
Scope
Our engagement was designed to provide:
Reasonable assurance on whether the 2014 data on the indicators Business Health Culture
Index, Employee Engagement, Employee Retention, Women in Management, Greenhouse
Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2 as well as selected Scope 3 emissions including business
flights and employee commuting), Renewable Energy, Total Energy Consumed and
Customer Loyalty, are, in all material respects, presented in accordance with the reporting
criteria.
Limited assurance on whether selected qualitative claims and quantitative indicators on
sustainability performance information, published on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web pages,
are, in all material respects, presented in accordance with the reporting criteria.
The Integrated Reporting web pages that have been part of the scope of our engagement are
marked with:
Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the
plausibility of data and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance.
Reporting criteria and assurance standards
SAP applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4
Reporting Principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and
Completeness, as described in the section ‘About this Report’, as reporting principles for
determining material aspects and report content.
SAP applies GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4, as described in the section ‘About this

Report’, as reporting criteria for selected sustainability performance information.
SAP applies the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute / World Business
Council for Sustainable Development, as described in the ‘Non­Financial Notes Environmental
Performance’, as reporting criteria for the Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
SAP applies internally developed definitions reporting on the Business Health Culture Index,
Employee Engagement, Employee Retention and Customer Loyalty as described in the ‘Non­
Financial Notes Social Performance’, as reporting criteria.
It is important to view the reported information in the context of these criteria.
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410:
Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing
and Assurance Standards Board. Amongst others, these standards require that the assurance
team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to
provide assurance on sustainability information, and that we comply with the requirements of
the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants
to ensure their independence.
Work undertaken
Our procedures included:
An evaluation of the process for determining material aspects and respective boundaries,
including results of SAP’s stakeholder engagement.
A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for SAP
in the reporting period.
Interviewing management at corporate level responsible for sustainability performance goal
setting and monitoring processes.
Reviewing the suitability of the internally developed reporting criteria.
Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the
collection, processing and control of the data on sustainability performance indicators,
including the consolidation of the data.
Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing the data, carrying
out internal control procedures and consolidating the data, including the ‘Non­Financial
Notes’.
Evaluating internal and external documentation to determine whether selected qualitative
claims and quantitative indicators on sustainability performance are supported by sufficient
evidence.
Reviewing the consistency of GRI G4 in­accordance option ‘Core’ as declared by SAP with
sustainability performance information presented on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web
pages.
In addition for reasonable assurance we conducted the following procedures:
An evaluation of the design and implementation, and tests of the operating effectiveness of
the systems and methods used to collect and process the data, including the aggregation of
these data into the information as presented on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web pages.

Auditing the 2014 data using internal and external documentation in order to determine in
detail whether the data correspond to the information in the relevant underlying sources, and
whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included
on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web pages.
Location visits to Walldorf, St. Leon Rot (both Germany) and Sao Leopoldo (Brazil) to
assess the quality of information management systems and the reliability of the data as
reported to corporate level.
Conclusions
The 2014 data on the indicators Business Health Culture Index, Employee Engagement,
Employee Retention, Women in Management, Greenhouse Gas Footprint (Scope 1 and 2 as
well as selected Scope 3 emissions including business flights and employee commuting),
Renewable Energy, Total Energy Consumed and Customer Loyalty, published on the
Integrated Reporting web pages, are, in all material respects, presented in accordance with
the reporting criteria.
Based on the procedures performed nothing came to our attention to indicate that the
selected qualitative claims and quantitative indicators on sustainability performance,
published on SAP’s Integrated Reporting web pages, are not, in all material respects,
presented in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Frankfurt am Main, February 19, 2015
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Simone Fischer
ppa. Christian Hell
Wirtschaftsprüferin
(German Public Auditor)

About This Integrated Report
GRI Index and United Nations Global Compact

The social and environmental data and information included in the SAP Integrated Report 2013
is prepared in accordance with the core option of the international guidelines G4 of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI).

General Standard Disclosures
General
Links and Content
Standard
Disclosures

External
Assurance

Global
Compact
Principles

Strategy and Analysis
G4­1

Letter from the CEO

Organizational Profile
G4­3

Overview of the SAP Group

G4­7

Investor Relations

G4­8

Customers

G4­9

Headcount;
Subsidiaries, Associates, and Other Equity Investments
Consolidated Financial Statements

G4­10

Chart Generator

6

G4­11

Human Rights and Labor Standards

3

G4­12

Sustainable Procurement

G4­13

There were no changes with significant impacts regarding our supply
chain.

G4­14

We support a precautionary approach towards environmental
management. While we see little apparent risk for our own operations, we
do see an opportunity to help our customers anticipate and manage this
risk in a more agile and responsive fashion through effective product
lifecycle management and sustainable design.

G4­15

Memberships

G4­16

Memberships

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4­17

Subsidiaries, Associates, and Other Equity Investments
All entities are covered by the report.

G4­18

Materiality;
About This Report

G4­19

Materiality

G4­20

GRI Content Index;
Environmental Non­Financial Notes;
Social Non­Financial Notes

G4­21

GRI Content Index;
Environmental Non­Financial Notes;
Social Non­Financial Notes

G4­22

Environmental Non­Financial Notes;
Social Non­Financial Notes

7

G4­23

Environmental Non­Financial Notes;
Social Non­Financial Notes

Stakeholder Engagement
G4­24

Stakeholder Engagement

G4­25

Stakeholder Engagement

G4­26

Stakeholder Engagement
We have not engaged stakeholders specifically as part of the report
preparation process.

G4­27

Stakeholder Engagement

Report Profile
G4­28

About This Report

G4­29

March 21, 2014

G4­30

About This Report

G4­31

Contact

G4­32

GRI Content Index

G4­33

Independent Assurance Report;
Governance for Integrated Reporting

Governance
G4­34

Governance;
Sustainability Management and Policies

Ethics and Integrity
G4­56

Business Conduct

10

Specific Standard Disclosures
DMA and Links and Content
Indicators

Omissions

Boundaries

External
Assurance

Global
Compact
Principles

Material Aspect: Business Conduct
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Business Conduct;
Materiality

10

SO3

Business Conduct

SAP

10

SO4

Business Conduct

SAP

10

SO5

Business Conduct

SAP

10

SO6

Public Policy

SAP

10

SO7

Litigation and Claims

SAP

SO8

Litigation and Claims

SAP

Material Aspect: Climate and Energy
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Sustainable Procurement

8

EC2

Risk Management and Risks
Energy and Emissions
In addition, SAP provides
details on risks and
opportunities related to
climate change through the
CDP

SAP +
outside

7

EN3

Energy and Emissions
Environmental Non­Financial
Notes

SAP

7, 8

EN4

Energy and Emissions

outside

8

EN5

Energy and Emissions

SAP

8

EN6

Energy and Emissions

SAP

8, 9

EN8

Waste and Water

SAP

7, 8

EN15

Energy and Emissions;
Chart Generator;
Environmental Non­Financial
Notes

SAP

7, 8

EN16

Energy and Emissions;
Chart Generator;
Environmental Non­Financial
Notes

SAP

7, 8

EN17

Energy and Emissions;
Chart Generator;
Environmental Non­Financial
Notes

outside

7, 8

EN18

Energy and Emissions

SAP +
outside

8

EN19

Energy and Emissions

SAP +
outside

8, 9

EN23

Waste and Water

SAP

8

EN30

Energy and Emissions;
Environmental Non­Financial
Notes

SAP +
outside

8

EN32

Sustainable Procurement

outside

8

Our operations are not
water­intensive. Therefore,
we do not report on the
sources of water withdrawal.

Our operations are not
waste­intensive. Therefore,
we do not report on the
different types of waste and
disposal methods.

Material Aspect: Financial Performance
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Materiality;
Report on Expected
Developments;
Report from the Supervisory
Board
We are working with our
customers to understand the
impact our solutions have on
their success and document
this in case studies. This is in
line with the expectations of
our stakeholders as well as
public policy makers. SAP
does not conduct community
assessment programs.

N/A

Report on Economic Position

SAP

EC8

Our Customers

outside

9

Material Aspect: Human Capital Management
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Sustainable Procurement;
Human Rights and Labor
Standards

1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6

LA1

Employees and Social
Performance;
Chart Generator

A breakdown of new
employee hires by age
group and gender as well as
total numbers is proprietary
information for SAP.

SAP

LA6

In Germany, we measure the
accident rate with a “1000­

Injuries, diseases, lost days,
or absenteeism are not a

SAP

6

Mann­Quote” (TMQ). This is
calculated as the number of
reportable accidents × 1000
employees/number of full­time
equivalents. Reportable
accidents are work­related
and include commuting
accidents that result in more
than three days of absence
from work. In 2014, the TMQ
was 4.2 (3.5 in 2013). We also
measure the accident rate per
one million working hours. In
2014, this value increased to
2.7 reportable accidents per
one million working hours (2.2
in 2013).

material issue for SAP as we
track our Business Health
Culture Index on a global
basis.

LA9

Employees and Social
Performance

Training hours split by
gender and employee
category are not a material
issue for SAP as we align
our training activities
according to the needs of
each employee and do not
tolerate discrimination.

LA10

Employees and Social
Performance
For continued employability
and managing career endings,
SAP has dedicated staff to
support generational
intelligence. These experts
work on continuously
improving processes and
designing programs for
sustaining employability as
long as possible; providing
training for cross­generation
collaboration; managing
career endings in a flexible
way (for example, part­time
options); and keeping
employees connected with the
company after retirement.
SAP also participates in
external research studies and
networks on workforce
demographics to share and
learn about best practices in
this field.

LA11

Employees and
Social Performance

LA12

SAP

6

SAP

The split by gender is
proprietary information for
SAP.

SAP

6

Employees and
Social Performance;
Chart Generator

SAP

6

LA14

Sustainable Procurement

outside

HR4

Human Rights and Labor
Standards

SAP

3

HR5

Human Rights and Labor
Standards

SAP

5

HR6

Human Rights and Labor
Standards

SAP

4

HR10

Sustainable Procurement

outside

2

Material Aspect: Intellectual Capital Management
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Customers

PR5

Customers

SAP

Material Aspect: Security and Privacy
DMA

Sustainability Management
and Policies;
Security and Privacy;
Materiality

PR8

Security and Privacy

SAP +
outside

1

About This Integrated Report
Recognition

In 2014, we received the following awards and recognition for our performance and efforts
related to sustainability:
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (SAP is one of very few companies who have been listed
in the DJSI since the launch in 1999).
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations of the World (Corporate Knights Inc. and
Innovest Strategic Value Advisors ranking)
SAP was recognized with a prestigious award for contributions for the inclusion of differently
abled people.
Global Challenges Index
STOXX® Global ESG Leaders
SAP Labs Israel won the Ma’ala Platinum Award for Best Sustainable Company.
SAP has qualified for inclusion in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2014 and
received the Industry Leader and Gold Class distinction for its excellent sustainability
performance.
SAP reached a maximum Score of 100 points at the CDP DACH Climate Disclosure Report
2014
SAP is listed in the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014 for the third
consecutive year.
FTSE4GOOD
NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability 50 Index
In addition, we received the following awards for being a globally recognized employer of
choice:
SAP Labs India ranked #5 at Great Places to Work.
SAP China won “Best Performance Management 2014” from 51job (read more).
SAP China listed in the ranking of “China Top 100 Ideal Employers 2014” (read more).
SAP America ranked #14 in 100 Top Companies for Remote Jobs in 2014.
SAP Labs Latin America ranked #1 Best Company to Work for in Brazil according to Você
S/A magazine.
SAP America, Inc. listed in Top 100 Workplaces in Atlanta by the Atlanta Journal­
Constitution.
SAP America, Inc. ranked #8 as a Top Workplace by philly.com.
SAP America, Inc. ranked Top Employer by Top Workplaces for Bay Areas.
SAP ranked #8 in Great Places to Work in Argentina.
SAP Canada, Inc. won Best Employer in Canada and also Best Employer in Quebec by Aon
Hewitt.

SAP ranked #14 among the 100 best IT Companies in Brazil and #2 for Rio Grande do Sul
by Great Places to Work.
SAP Argentina ranked #9 in the Apertura Ranking by Revista Apertura.
SAP is among the Best Multinational Companies in Brazil according to Great Places to
Work.
SAP France was awarded the Top Employers France 2014 certification.
SAP UKI Ltd. was awarded the Top Employers United Kingdom 2014 certification.
SAP Turkey is ranked #5 for companies with 50­500 employees according to Great Places
to Work.
SAP Switzerland is ranked #12 for Most Attractive Employer in IT by Universum.
SAP Bulgaria won Best Employer in midsized and large companies awarded by Aon Hewitt.
SAP ranked #15 in the Absolventa and Clevis Group list of companies offering valuable
internships.
SAP ranked #22 in the OTaC Social Media Talent Interaction 2014 Study by Potentialpark.
SAP ranked #2 in the Top Employer IT ranking by Trendence.
SAP won Best Employer 2014 category IT awarded by Focus, Xing and Statista.
SAP Switzerland ranked #12 in Universums list of Switzerland’s Most Attractive Employers
for IT Students.
SAP Labs France was listed among the 2014 Best Workplaces in France.
SAP Czech Republic listed #3 in Top Employers by Aon Hewitt in the category large
companies.
SAP Africa was awarded the Top Employers Africa 2015 as well as Top Employers awards
for the Ivory Coast, Kenya, Nigera and South Africa (read more).

Glossary

AA1000 AccountAbility Principles
Standard (AA1000APS)

Provides a framework for organizations to
identify, prioritize, and respond to
sustainability challenges. The other AA1000
standards – the Assurance Standard and the
Stakeholder Engagement Standard – are
based on the APS principles and support their
achievement.

ABAP

SAP software programming language.

add­on

A software application that is technically
dependent on – and can only be installed on
top of – another application.

Americas’ SAP Users’ Group
(ASUG)

Non­profit organization of SAP customer
companies dedicated to providing educational
and networking opportunities in support of
SAP software and implementation. These user
groups are established in regions around the
world to share knowledge and influence SAP
development efforts. ASUG is the largest user
group with more than 100,000 individuals at
3,800 companies in more than 17 industries
across the SAP ecosystem.

analytics

Data analysis typically generated in the form
of reports and charts that can be used for
business insight and decision making.

analytics solutions from SAP

Analytics solutions from SAP enable people to
unleash the power of collective insight in Big
Data by empowering them with the right
information at the right time to make insightful

business decisions, anticipate change, and
uncover new opportunities. Analytics solutions
cover the areas of business intelligence,
enterprise performance management, and
governance, risk, and compliance.

application

Software that enables organizations to
address specific business needs and to
perform certain business processes or
activities and.

application lifecycle management

Describes the processes, tools, services, and
organizational model used to manage SAP
and non­SAP software throughout the solution
lifecycle, from concept to phase­out. This
recommended approach to application
lifecycle management enables companies to
adopt innovations from SAP rapidly and gain
optimal value from their business solutions.

applied analytics

Category of offerings within the portfolio of
analytics solutions from SAP comprising
individual offerings for analytic applications,
analytic content, and accelerators.

Ariba

Company acquired by SAP in October 2012.
All cloud­related supplier assets of SAP are
now consolidated under Ariba, which operates
as an independent business under the name
“Ariba, an SAP company.” Ariba solutions for
procurement, financials, and sourcing, as well
as the Ariba Network, continue to maintain the
Ariba brand.

Ariba Network

Business commerce network where
companies of all sizes can connect to their
trading partners anywhere, at any time from
any application or device to buy, sell, and
manage their cash more efficiently and
effectively than ever before. Companies
around the world use the Ariba Network to
simplify interenterprise commerce and
enhance the results they deliver. See

“business network.”

benchmarking

Process of measuring products, services, and
practices against those of leading companies,
which can also be used as a reference point of
measurement for evaluating best practices.

best practice

A management concept that involves devising
a method of process that most effectively
produces a desired outcome. SAP
applications use business best practices to
help customers automate common business
processes through software and technology.
See “SAP Best Practices.”

Big Data

The large volume of data created by billions of
connected devices and people generating a
tremendous amount of information about their
behavior, location, and activity. This
availability of massive amounts of data
requires companies to rethink technology
architecture and database structures.

Business Health Culture Index

A score for the general cultural conditions in
an organization that enable employees to stay
healthy and balanced. The index is calculated
based on the results of regular employee
surveys.

business intelligence (BI)

Software that enables users to analyze an
organization’s raw data and make fact­based
decisions. BI­related processes include data
mining, analytical processing, querying, and
reporting. SAP BusinessObjects BI solutions
include the SAP BusinessObjects BI platform,
SAP Crystal Reports, SAP BusinessObjects
Dashboards, and SAP Lumira.

business network

An online service that connects businesses
and their systems to those of their trading
partners and enables new processes and

information and insight sharing only possible
in a digital environment. See “Ariba Network.”

business priority

An important topic for success in business or
industry. SAP recommends end­to­end
solutions by business priority to help
businesses run better and address the
complex and challenging requirements within
their particular industries or functional areas.
See “end­to­end solution.”

business process

Set of logically related activities performed
within an organization to complete a defined
business task. Order processing is a typical
example. SAP provides software and
technology that enable and support business
processes.

Business Process Expert (BPX)
community

Part of SAP Community Network, this online
network connects SAP customers, business
analysts, consultants, and SAP internal
experts. The BPX community is a unique
repository for knowledge that focuses on a
wide variety of process, implementation, and
solution issues.

business user

Employees who spend significant time finding
and sharing information, collaborating with
others, coordinating projects, devising strategy
or operational tactics, and coming up with new
ideas based on information gathered from
multiple sources. Also called knowledge or
information workers or business consumers.

carbon offset or greenhouse gas
(GHG) offset

A unit of carbon dioxide­equivalent (CO2

cloud computing

Generic term for flexible, IT­related services

equivalent) that is reduced, avoided, or
sequestered to compensate for emissions
occurring elsewhere.

available through, or hosted on, the Internet
for consumers and business, including
storage, computing power, software
development environments, and applications,
combined with service delivery. Accessed as
needed “in the cloud,” these services eliminate
the need for in­house IT resources. See
“software as a service.”

cloud deployment models

The different infrastructure, software lifecycle
management, and licensing models used for
deploying software, that is, where the software
is running and how much control and flexibility
a customer has.

cloud service model

“As­a­service” offerings where cloud services
are offered either as software as a service
(SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and
infrastructure as a service (IaaS).

cloud solutions from SAP

Category used to communicate all of SAP
offerings and efforts related to the cloud,
including platform, managed services,
solutions, technology, and infrastructure. It
includes line­of­business cloud applications
from both SuccessFactors and SAP.

CO2 equivalent

A measure to compare the emissions of
various greenhouse gases based upon their
global warming potential. For example, the
global warming potential for methane over 100
years is 21. This means that emissions of one
million metric tons of methane are equivalent
to emissions of 21 million metric tons of
carbon dioxide.

component

Modular piece of software offering functions
accessible via interfaces.

Concur Technologies

Travel and expense management company
acquired by SAP in 2014 to deliver a new

model for managing business resources,
processes, and spend through the world’s
largest business network in the cloud for T&E.

core applications

Standard business applications available in
SAP Business Suite, including SAP ERP, SAP
Customer Relationship Management (SAP
CRM), SAP Product Lifecycle Management
(SAP PLM), SAP Supply Chain Management
(SAP SCM), and SAP Supplier Relationship
Management (SAP SRM).

corporate social responsibility

SAP’s corporate social responsibility (CSR)
program is about how the company creates
social impact for people, both inside and
outside SAP, to help make society more
sustainable and the world run better.

custom development project
(CDP)

Realization of a custom­developed solution
that meets unique business needs, realized at
SAP or in a customer’s development system.

customer competence center

A program established by SAP in 1994 to
assist customers in setting up and optimizing
their own support operations. The program
focuses on sharing best practices, providing
operational tools, and creation of operations
standards across all organizations involved
with IT service and application management.

customer connection

A simple process directed at incrementally
enhancing and improving the products and
solutions SAP customers are using today. It
offers SAP customers the opportunity to
suggest small enhancements to products and
solutions in mainstream maintenance, for fast
and non­disruptive delivery using notes and
support packages.

customer engagement lifecycle

Model that provides an integrated framework
of practices to help create and deliver

customer value. The phases of the customer
engagement lifecycle represent the common
route followed by the SAP and the customer
teams in the process of identifying, delivering,
operating, and managing solutions that best fit
the customer’s needs.

Customer Net Promoter Score
(NPS)

Describes the willingness of customers to
recommend or promote an organization or
company to others. It is defined as the
percentage of customers that are likely to
recommend an organization or company to
friends or colleagues (promoters) minus the
percentage of customers that are unlikely to
do so.

data center energy

The amount of energy consumed in SAP’s
data centers related to the number of
employees (expressed in full­time
equivalents/FTEs).

data warehouse

An electronic collection of information
organized for easy access by computer
programs. See “SAP Business Warehouse.”

default release

Most recent release of an SAP application
after it enters the unrestricted shipment phase.
The standard software release is shipped to
customers unless a specific release is
ordered. Usually, the most recent release of
an SAP software product is declared the
current default release once the restricted
shipment phase has ended.

dematerialization

Refers to reducing the total material that goes
toward providing products or services to
customers. SAP achieves this effect through
greater efficiency in the usage of materials,
such as default double­sided printing, or by
increasing online conferencing to reduce
business travel.

design thinking

A methodology for routine innovation that brings together the right side of the brain
(creative) with the left side of the brain (analytical).

disruptive technology

Process by which a product or service takes
root initially in simple applications at the
bottom of a market and then relentlessly
moves “up market,” eventually displacing
established competitors. Term coined by
Clayton Christensen.

DSAG

Abbreviation for Deutschsprachige SAP­
Anwendergruppe (German­Speaking SAP
Users’ Group), with more than 50,000
members in 2,900 member companies in
German­speaking countries and beyond.

Duet Enterprise

Software resulting from collaboration between
SAP and Microsoft that enables business
users to boost individual and team productivity
by giving business users access to selected
SAP software and data using the familiar
Microsoft Office environment.

Early Knowledge Transfer

SAP training program that delivers early
product­related knowledge to presales, sales,
consultants, partners, and support teams. This
program contributes to the successful
implementation of ramp­up projects and is a
crucial element of the ramp­up process in the
product innovation lifecycle at SAP. Formerly
called Ramp­Up Knowledge Transfer.

ecosystem

Construct encompassing SAP and its
customers and partners that extends the value
SAP provides to its customers. By bringing
together community­based insight, innovative
partner solutions, and industry­leading
collaboration and co­innovation, it enables
customers to extract the greatest possible

value from their SAP investments.

electronic waste (e­waste)

Electronic products that are discarded by
consumers or companies, such as computers,
computer monitors, or mobile devices.

Employee Engagement Index

A score for the level of employee commitment,
pride, and loyalty, as well as the feeling of
employees of being advocates for their
company. The index is calculated based on
the results of regular employee surveys.

employee retention

The ratio of the average headcount
(expressed in full­time equivalents/FTEs)
minus employee­initiated terminations
(turnover) divided by the average headcount,
taking into account the past 12 months.

enabler effect

Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and
increase of energy savings in the entire
economy through innovative technology
provided by the ICT sector.

end­to­end process

Set of activities supporting defined
management, core, or support processes.
Customers can use these activities as a
reference to map their own processes.

end­to­end solution

Solutions that drive strategic business
outcomes and directly contribute to a business
priority in an industry, line of business, or
technology area. The solutions are structured
into solution capabilities which comprise a
number of individual products and/or license
materials. End­to­end solutions provide a
business scope with a comprehensive value
proposition. See “business priority.”

enhancement package

Optional software packages that enable

companies to take advantage of innovation
while keeping their core software stable.
Enhancement packages contain improved
general business and industry functionality,
enterprise services, and other user interface
and functional improvements. Organizations
can activate selected business functions
contained within the enhancement packages
and deploy them on their own timetable with
minimal disruption to business operations.

enterprise mobility

Term used in business and industry to refer to
the concept and approach to making a
business mobile. At SAP, we use “enterprise
mobility” as our umbrella term for an overall
mobile strategy.

enterprise resource planning

See “SAP ERP.”

environmental impact

A positive or negative change to the natural
environment.

Fieldglass

Company acquired by SAP in 2014 to
strengthen the cloud portfolio with a unique
end­to­end solution that addresses the entire
workforce including contract workers and
permanent staff. Fieldglass software offerings
are available now as SAP Fieldglass
Approvals, SAP Fieldglass Contingent
Workforce Management, SAP Fieldglass
Services Procurement, SAP Fieldglass Vendor
Management, and SAP Fieldglass Worker
Profile Management.

Global Customer Reference
Program

SAP program offering detailed information
about reference customers from around the
world, using a database that channel partners
can access to help close a deal with a new
SAP customer. Reference customers have
agreed to participate in one or more reference
activities on behalf of SAP.

Global Partner Operations

As of May 2014, Global Partner Operations (GPO) is the new name of SAP Ecosystem &
Channels (ECO). It brings all SAP partner relationships under one leader and one
organization. It includes the existing SAP Ecosystem & Channels team and is
responsible for managing strategic partnerships, as well as the SAP Business One
channel and the growing OEM business.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

A non­profit organization that provides
companies and organizations with a
comprehensive sustainability reporting
framework that is widely used around the
world.

greenhouse gas footprint

The sum of all greenhouse gas emissions
measured and reported, including renewable
energy and third­party reductions, for
example, offsets.

Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG
Protocol)

The most widely used international accounting
tool to understand, quantify, and manage
greenhouse gas emissions.

Hasso Plattner Founders' Award

Introduced in 2014, an employee award that
signifies the highest employee recognition at
SAP, awarded annually by the CEO to an
individual or a team.

hybrid cloud

A hybrid cloud deployment model uses
resources comprised of a mix of two or more
distinct cloud deployment models that are
integrated by standardized or proprietary
technology enabling data and application
portability.

hybrid landscape

A mix of on­premise and any cloud
deployment model(s). Alternatively referred to
as an “on premise to cloud” or “hybrid
environment.”

hybris

Company acquired by SAP in August 2013
that offers an extensible omnichannel
commerce platform that helps businesses sell
more goods, services, and digital content
through every touch point, channel, and
device. The renamed hybris Commerce Suite
(SAP hybris B2B Commerce and SAP hybris
B2C Commerce solutions) support product
content management and unified commerce
processes that give a business a single view
of its customers, products, and orders, and its
customers a single view of the business.
hybris operates as an independent business
under the name “hybris, an SAP company.”

in­memory computing

A major advance in information technology
that creates a dramatic change in computing,
analytics, and data storage. Combining
advances in multicore processing with more
affordable servers, in­memory computing
allows information to be stored in the main
memory rather than in relational databases to
greatly accelerate processing times. It disrupts
the traditional IT stack comprised of hardware,
middleware, and software, where disk­based
relational databases can become bottlenecks.

in­memory data fabric

A concept that uses smart data access
technology from SAP HANA to deliver
accelerated business intelligence to
customers.

in­memory database

Database that keeps all active records in main
memory rather than on disk. Accessing in­
memory records is considerably faster than
retrieving them from the disk, significantly
increasing performance. SAP HANA is SAP’s
groundbreaking database that allows
businesses to take advantage of in­memory
computing. See “SAP HANA.”

inclusivity

Software suite that helps companies build a

comprehensive business process platform to
run and perform better. The software supports
core business operations ranging from
supplier relationships to production,
warehouse management, sales, and
administrative functions, through to customer
relationships. The main applications in the
suite are SAP CRM, SAP ERP, SAP PLM,
SAP SRM, and SAP SCM. SAP Business
Suite, SAP CRM, and SAP ERP are now
available powered by SAP HANA.

independent software vendor
(ISV)

Company that makes and sells software
products that run on one or more computer
hardware or operating system platforms.

industry

An economic sector characterized by a value
chain, business processes, and a set of
products and services that is typical or
common for all companies belonging to this
sector. At SAP, “industries” is also used as a
term to differentiate between lines­of­business
functions such as marketing, procurement,
and finance, and those functions specific to an
industry.

industry portfolios

SAP offers software portfolios that address the
business needs of 25 different industries.

Industry Value Network

SAP program that brings together customers,
independent software vendors, system
integrators, technology vendors, and SAP to
form a network of groups to stimulate co­
innovation and the development of high­
impact business solutions for a particular
industry.

infrastructure as a service (IaaS)

Processing, storage, network, other computing
resources and typically a defined level of
support for consumers to deploy software
(such as operating systems and applications).
IaaS consumers do not manage underlying
cloud infrastructure but may control

networking components (such as host
firewalls).

Internet of Things

A fusion of the digital world and the physical
world that brings together different concepts
and technical components. Everyday objects
and machines have sensors that can
“communicate” with each other over the
Internet, making new models possible for
business processes, collaboration,
miniaturization of devices, and mobile
communications. SAP offers several solutions
that address the Internet of Things.

ISO 14001

A standard for environmental management
systems that provides practical tools for
companies and organizations to identify and
control their environmental impact and
constantly improve their environmental
performance.

key performance indicator (KPI)

Performance figure for which threshold values
are defined and against which validation is
executed.

lean

Set of manufacturing principles that first
defines customer value, then reorganizes
every step required to design, order, build,
deliver, and maintain this value across all the
organizations and units. As a result, firms can
do more with less, respond more quickly to
customer needs, create jobs that are more
rewarding for employees, and reduce their
impact on the environment.

legal change

Correction to SAP software to adapt an SAP
software release to changes in legal and
regulatory requirements.

line of business (LoB)

Internal organizational area or business unit in
a company (division) that combines all

responsibilities for a particular product, group,
or set of processes. Examples include sales,
purchasing, human resources, finance,
marketing, and so on.

line­of­business portfolios

SAP offers software portfolios that address the
needs of organizations in 12 lines of business,
or functional areas. The following solution
portfolios are currently available: SAP for
Asset Management, SAP for Commerce, SAP
for Finance, SAP for Human Resources, SAP
for Manufacturing, SAP for Marketing, SAP for
R&D/Engineering, SAP for Sales, SAP for
Service, SAP for Sourcing and Procurement,
SAP for Supply Chain Management, and SAP
for Sustainability.

mainstream maintenance

First SAP maintenance phase, which includes
the full scope of support. It is followed by an
extended maintenance, customer­specific
maintenance, or priority­one support phase.

maintenance

Software support comprising support for legal
changes and corrections delivered through the
SAP Notes tool, support packages, problem
support, and access to information and online
service channels – depending on the
maintenance phase.

maintenance strategy

Set of rules that determine the length and
conditions of maintenance for SAP software
releases. Detailed rules can differ depending
on the type of application.

managed cloud

Deployment that implies resources are
dedicated to one customer, managed by the
cloud provider, and accessed through a VPN.
SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud is SAP’s
managed cloud offering.

master price list

Catalog for customers containing separately

priced SAP products as well as terms and
conditions.

materiality

Determines the relevance and significance of
an issue to an organization and its
stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that
will influence the decisions, actions, and
performance of an organization or its
stakeholders.

mobile apps

Applications for mobile devices available for
download, demo, and purchase on SAP Store,
App Store, and other online stores. Mobile
apps are categorized as either
business/product in focus or as consumer­
focused. At SAP, our mobile apps are task­
oriented or allow access to existing on­
premise software.

mobile solutions from SAP

Provide a foundation for enterprise mobility
and seamless integration with the core
enterprise applications of our customers. Our
portfolio of mobile solutions includes
enterprise mobility management, including the
SAP Afaria mobile device management
solution and the SAP Mobile Documents
solution; mobile apps; and SAP Mobile
Platform.

non­profit or not­for­profit

A corporation or an association that conducts
business for the benefit of the public without
shareholders and without a profit motive.

on demand

Model of software deployment whereby
providers license an application to customers
for use as a service when they need it, that is,
“on demand.” It eliminates the need for on­site
IT resources to manage infrastructure and
thereby reduces operational expenses. Due to
their software­as­a­service nature, on­demand
solutions are often available in the cloud. See
“cloud solutions from SAP.”

on premise

Traditional model of software deployment where enterprises purchase software licenses
and deploy applications in­house. A deployment model where a software license is
purchased and deployed on the servers at the premises of the customer. The customer
manages and controls the software.

open source

Software based on the concept of software
developers coming together to build a virtual
community and solving a common problem by
developing working software that everyone
has a right to change. Successful
development projects under the open source
model include Linux – a free operating system
supported by SAP.

Partner Direct

A program that offers a selection of SAP
products to customers exclusively from SAP
partners.

platform as a service (PaaS)

Cloud infrastructure, operating system,
programming languages, libraries, services,
tools and typically a defined level of support
for consumers to deploy consumer­created or
acquired applications. PaaS consumers do not
manage underlying cloud infrastructure but
have control over deployed applications.

point­of­sale (POS)

Generic term used in distribution to describe
all information that is recorded at the time a
product is sold. The data typically includes the
location of the sale, price point, SKU, end­user
contact information, and partner contact
information. The SAP Point­of­Sale application
can help retail businesses reduce the
operating costs of store systems – while
delivering an enhanced customer experience.

powered by SAP HANA

An SAP offering powered by SAP HANA runs
on the SAP HANA platform. More than 100

SAP applications are currently “powered by
SAP HANA.” Partner solutions or applications
that are powered by SAP HANA are certified
by SAP to run on the SAP HANA platform.
These applications take advantage of
distinctive capabilities of SAP HANA to deliver
key benefits, such as simpler administration,
reduced overhead, and better business
intelligence over conventional traditional
technology platforms.

predictive analytics

Brings advanced analytics capabilities to a
broad spectrum of users to help uncover new
business opportunities, predict trends, and
proactively respond to change. Through the
acquisition of KXEN, SAP extends predictive
analytics tools beyond data scientists to line­
of­business users and analysts in the
workplace by automating key modeling and
analytical tasks and enabling faster
deployment and adoption. Available in SAP
Predictive Analysis software.

priority­one support

An additional optional maintenance phase
offered after expiration of mainstream
maintenance for specific releases of the SAP
BusinessObjects Business Intelligence
platform and former SAP BusinessObjects
solutions no longer actively sold or marketed.

private cloud

Deployment implies resources dedicated to
one customer and accessed through the
internet. The infrastructure is owned, managed
and operated by the customer, a third­party, or
both, and is on the premises of the customer,
cloud provider, or a third party.

private edition

A private edition is identical to the public
cloud, except that the application is dedicated
to one customer. See “public cloud.”

product

A non­versioned high­level view of software
from a software logistics perspective. It is a

“bracket” that contains corresponding software
product versions.

Product Availability Matrix (PAM)

Database that bundles technical and release
planning information on SAP components for
quick reference. Information on the availability
of SAP component releases and maintenance
end dates, as well as release information are
available.

product footprint

The environmental impact of products,
processes, or services by production, usage,
and disposal.

product instance

A group of technically dependent software
component versions that are part of a
(software) product version and have to be
installed and operated on a single logical
system/server. The software product instances
of a software product version show the
maximal distribution possibility of the software
product version. Also known as “software
product instance.”

product line

Individual products grouped together based on
their main brand names, including all versions,
technical releases, editions, options, add­ons,
delivery types, and related tools. Example:
The product line “SAP Customer Relationship
Management” would include SAP CRM 7.0,
SAP Cloud for Sales, SAP Cloud for Service,
SAP CRM rapid­deployment solution, the SAP
Customer Insight mobile app, and so on.

product version

One or more software component versions
made available at the same time for
implementing a well­defined scope of
functionality. The versions of a product fulfill
the principle of functional continuity. From a
delivery point of view, the version indicates the
release of a product and can either be stand­
alone or add­on. Also known as “software
product version.”

public cloud

Provides consumers access to the provider’s
applications running on cloud infrastructure.
The resources are located on the premises of
the cloud provider, not of the customer, and
are shared by multiple customers accessing
them through the Internet. The application is
shared by multiple customers and accessible
from various client devices via either a thin
client interface, such as a Web browser, or a
program interface. The customer does not
manage or control the underlying cloud
infrastructure including network, servers,
operating systems, storage, or even individual
application capabilities, with the possible
exception of limited user­specific application
configuration. The customer is provided self­
service access and tools.

Ramp­Up Knowledge Transfer

see “Early Knowledge Transfer.”

release

SAP software that has a version number, is
shipped at a particular time, and has defined
maintenance phases.

release­to­customer date

Date that marks the initial availability of a
release to customers and the beginning of the
restricted shipment phase.

renewable energy

The shares and types of electricity obtained
from renewable sources such as hydro, wind,
solar, geothermal, and biomass. It is
calculated by adding the amount of renewable
energy specifically sourced, produced on­site
by our own solar cells and covered by
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs).

responsiveness

In the context of stakeholder engagement, an
organization’s cooperation and communication
with stakeholders, and the decisions and
actions taken in response to addressed topics

and issues.

restricted shipment phase

First phase of a release delivery, which is
rolled out within the framework of the SAP
Ramp­Up program. The program determines
how many customers receive the release and
increases distribution in a controlled way. This
phase is followed by the unrestricted shipment
phase.

road map

Product timeline that has a variety of
objectives, including communication to
customers, users, or other parties interested in
the timing of future product releases; the
features planned for those releases; general
prioritization of features; and in some cases,
the requirements of features in enough detail
that current and prospective customers can
give feedback on the feature itself and the
product’s direction.

Run Simple

SAP’s operating principle that refers to how
SAP solutions can help our customers run at
their best by addressing complexity and
innovating for future growth as well as to how
SAP can radically simplify how we conduct
business internally and externally. Run Simple
helps our employees concentrate on ways to
master complexity for SAP and our customers.
When fulfilled, it serves as a powerful
differentiator in the market.

SAP Accounting powered by SAP
HANA

Formerly called Smart Accounting software.

SAP Active Global Support (SAP
AGS)

A global organization with more than 4,000
support engineers and developers that
focuses on support offerings, helping
companies manage the application lifecycle
and optimize solution performance and
consequently manage complexity, mitigate
risks, and control costs. The services are
available through seven strategically located
global support centers and more than 30 local

support centers.

SAP ActiveEmbedded

Enhanced engagement services for optimizing
solutions and accelerating adoption of
technologies without disrupting customer
businesses.

SAP Adaptive Server Enterprise
(SAP ASE)

A high­performance relational database
management system for mission­critical, data­
intensive environments. It ensures highest
operational efficiency and throughput on a
broad range of platforms. Key features include
data encryption to protect from internal and
external breaches, partitioning technology for
better performance and easier maintenance,
and virtualization and clustering capabilities for
continuous availability and efficient use of
resources. Formerly called SAP Sybase ASE.

SAP Afaria

A mobile device management solution that
provides a single administrative console to
centrally manage, secure, and deploy mobile
data, applications, and devices. SAP Afaria
simplifies the management complexities of a
workforce on the go by making the data stored
and transmitted by mobile devices secure.

SAP Anywhere

New solution from the SMB Solutions Group at
SAP designed for smaller companies that
need a seamless way to manage their
customer interactions in a single front­office
system. It is an affordable, easy­to­use
solution that enables companies to deliver a
consistent customer experience across all
their digital marketing, sales, and commerce
activities.

SAP API Management

New cloud offering that helps customers
manage their application programming
interfaces; an on­premise edition is also
available.

SAP Best Practices

Packages that provide proven methods and tools for organizations to implement best
business practices in key areas and a range of industries using SAP software. The
packages deliver methodology, documentation, and preconfiguration that enable rapid,
reliable deployment with quick return on investment.

SAP Business All­in­One

Comprehensive and flexible business
management solution targeted to midsize
companies with up to 2,500 employees that
are looking for a comprehensive, integrated
industry­specific ERP solution with built­in best
practices.

SAP Business ByDesign

Adaptable, cloud­based business suite ideally
suited for SMEs and subsidiaries of large
corporations, it is a complete, integrated suite
that can run a whole enterprise – financials,
human resources, sales, procurement,
customer service, and supply chain. The latest
versions enable partners and customers to
extend the system capabilities or build cloud­
based applications using SAP Business
ByDesign Studio.

SAP Business One

Application designed especially for small
businesses with up to 100 employees,
providing a single, integrated solution for
managing the entire business across
financials, sales, customer relationships,
purchasing, inventory, analytics, and
operations.

SAP Business Suite

Software suite that helps companies build a
comprehensive business process platform to
run and perform better. The software supports
core business operations ranging from
supplier relationships to production,
warehouse management, sales, and
administrative functions, through to customer
relationships. The main applications in the
suite are SAP CRM, SAP ERP, SAP PLM,
SAP SRM, and SAP SCM. SAP Business

Suite, SAP CRM, and SAP ERP are now
available powered by SAP HANA.

SAP Business Suite 4 SAP HANA

See “SAP S/4HANA.”

SAP Business Suite powered by
SAP HANA

In January 2013, SAP launched SAP Business
Suite powered by SAP HANA, a next­
generation business suite that captures and
analyzes data in real time on a single in­
memory platform empowering customers to
run their business in real time to transact,
analyze, and predict instantly and proactively.
The core applications in the suite now take
advantage of SAP HANA for smarter
innovations, faster business processes, and
simpler interactions.

SAP Business Warehouse (SAP
BW)

Application of the SAP NetWeaver technology
platform that provides a complete view of a
company and the tools needed to make the
right decisions, optimize processes, and
measure strategic success, such as business­
critical factors and benchmarks. Formerly
called SAP NetWeaver Business Warehouse.

SAP BusinessObjects Business
Intelligence solutions

Category of solutions designed to help
optimize business performance and provide
business insight by connecting people with
information. The SAP BusinessObjects brand
name was dropped in 2012 from all SAP
offerings except for business intelligence. SAP
BusinessObjects Business Intelligence suite
comprises the majority of SAP
BusinessObjects Business Intelligence
solutions. See “analytics solutions from SAP.”

SAP Cloud for Customer

A cloud­based offering of CRM applications
and tools developed for sales, service, and
marketing teams that provides an overview of
your end­to­end business, as well as deep
customer insight and personalized
engagement, so that they can deliver a
relevant experience at every step of your

customer’s journey. It also offers designed­in
social collaboration to help transform social
media conversations into business insight.
The offering currently includes SAP Cloud for
Sales, SAP Cloud for Service, SAP Cloud for
Marketing, and SAP Cloud for Social
Engagement solutions.

SAP Cloud for Financials

A cloud­based financial management solution
with an intuitive, easy­to­consume interface
and personalized information. It features
embedded, dynamic analytics, enabling
companies to achieve superior financial insight
across the business. Customers can use the
solution to drive streamlined, end­to­end
compliant financial processes as well as real­
time financial performance information for
everyone in the business. It includes the
solution formerly called SAP Financials
OnDemand and is part of the SAP Cloud for
Finance portfolio.

SAP Cloud for Planning

Cloud­based solution for all types of planning
powered by SAP HANA. Formerly called SAP
Cloud for Enterprise Performance
Management.

SAP Cloud for Sales, SAP Cloud
for Service, and SAP Cloud for
Marketing

Cloud­based solutions targeted at sales,
service, and marketing organizations with
designed­in social collaboration to help
transform social media conversations into
business insight.

SAP Cloud for Social Engagement

Cloud­based solution that helps transform
social media conversations into business
insight. Marketing and customer service
organizations can use it to better engage with
customers to increase brand loyalty, manage
reputational risks, and capitalize on
opportunities.

SAP Cloud powered by SAP
HANA

Term that refers to all of SAP and
SuccessFactors offerings related to the cloud,

including platforms, services, applications,
technology, and infrastructure. It is not the
name of a single offering or a category of
solutions. SAP Cloud powered by SAP HANA
comprises public cloud applications, managed
cloud applications delivered via SAP HANA
Enterprise Cloud, and a platform delivered as
a service, SAP HANA Cloud Platform. SAP
Cloud always refers to more than just
solutions or applications.

SAP Co­Innovation Lab

SAP location featuring a simulated,
heterogeneous data center that incorporates
hardware and infrastructure software from
various vendors. The lab provides a hands­on
environment for SAP, customers, and partners
to innovate, accelerate, and showcase new
business solutions and technologies
collaboratively. Customers and partners can
visit the lab to evaluate the latest SAP and
partner solutions in a simulated, real­world
infrastructure.

SAP Community Network

Online portal with nearly two million members
in more than 200 countries, providing
individuals with the opportunity to trade
experience and insights, pursue business
opportunities, and learn from each other. SAP
offers distinct communities in the network that
offer information, trusted resources, and co­
innovation. See “Business Process Expert
community,” “SAP Developer Network,” and
“SAP University Alliances community.”

SAP CRM powered by SAP HANA

First SAP Business Suite application powered
by SAP HANA.

SAP Crystal Reports

Software that enables businesses to design
interactive reports and connect them to
virtually any data source.

SAP Crystal solutions

Integrated, affordable, and user­friendly family
of offerings for reporting, dashboarding,

presentation, and ad hoc analysis that can
empower individuals in organizations of any
size to discover and share insight for optimal
decision making. With insight into every
aspect of the business, companies can
monitor performance, identify opportunities for
growth, and transform how they run their
businesses.

SAP Custom Development

SAP organization that specializes in building
individual software solutions that address the
unique needs of customers, and that fit
seamlessly with existing SAP software. The
organization draws on SAP innovations,
especially SAP HANA, to deliver unmatched
impact and value for specific customer use
cases. See “custom development project.”

SAP Customer Relationship
Management (SAP CRM)

Application that provides comprehensive
software support to help marketing, sales, and
service professionals obtain complete
customer intelligence that they can leverage to
manage customer relationships and customer­
related processes effectively. SAP CRM can
enable multichannel customer interactions,
including mobile smartphones, the Internet,
and social media and also offers a
communications infrastructure that is designed
to help connecting with other users anytime,
anywhere. SAP offers CRM applications in
both on­premise and on­demand deployment
models.

SAP Data Management

Portfolio that replaces and extends the
concept and previously named offering of SAP
Real­Time Data Platform. It refers to the data
management capabilities in the following
offerings, which are still available as individual
offerings: SAP HANA; SAP ASE; SAP IQ;
SAP SQL Anywhere; SAP ESP; SAP
Replication Server; SAP PowerDesigner; SAP
Control Center, SAP PowerBuilder, and SAP
Data Services. Together, these allow users to
access, store, and capitalize on Big Data to
support business decision making in real time.

SAP Developer Network

Part of SAP Community Network, this online community offers deep technical content
and expertise for SAP developers, analysts, consultants, and administrators.

SAP EcoHub

Online solution marketplace that centralizes
information about SAP and partner solutions –
and includes features such as feedback,
ratings, and demos to help discover, evaluate,
and buy solutions to complement an
investment in SAP software.

SAP Ecosystem & Channels

See “Global Partner Operations.”

SAP Education

An organization with more than 1,000
resources on global scale that provides a
complete and high­quality enablement offering
across the entire customer lifecycle for all
target audiences (business users, project
teams, customers, partners, and so on). The
comprehensive portfolio of educational
products and services leverages a multimodal
offering (on­site, e­learning, and virtual
classrooms) to accelerate enablement and
reduce cost and certifications paths to help
ensure enablement quality.

SAP Enterprise Portal

Intranet or corporate portal that provides easy
access to business processes and
information, social collaboration, and content
management across various consumption
channels and helps customers implement
business­to­employee, partner, and consumer
scenarios. Formerly called SAP NetWeaver
Portal.

SAP Enterprise Support

Services that provide proactive support in
addition to all features of SAP Standard
Support services. These proactive support
services encompass tools, processes, and
services that enable continuous improvement,
holistic application lifecycle management for

continuous innovation, business and
operational process improvements, and levers
to address the total cost of operation (TCO).

SAP Environment, Health & Safety
Management (SAP EHS
Management)

An application that supports sustainability
initiatives – enabling companies to manage
EHS operational, financial, and reporting risks
holistically across their facilities and extended
business network. As an integral part of SAP
Business Suite, the application systematically
embeds EHS requirements and tasks directly
into enterprise business processes, reinforcing
compliance and risk reduction across global
operations.

SAP ERP

Application designed to optimize business and
IT processes by reducing IT complexity,
increasing adaptability, and delivering more IT
value at a lower cost than traditional ERP
solutions. It can support mission­critical, end­
to­end business processes for finance, human
capital management, asset management,
sales, procurement, and other essential
corporate functions. SAP ERP can also
support industry­ specific processes by
providing industry­specific business functions
that can be activated selectively via the switch
framework, keeping the application core stable
and helping ensure maximum performance.

SAP ERP powered by SAP HANA

The second SAP Business Suite application
powered by SAP HANA.

SAP Event Stream Processor
(SAP ESP)

A high­performance complex event processing
engine designed to analyze streams of
business event information in real time.
Formerly called SAP Sybase ESP.

SAP Executive Board

The official governing body of SAP,
overseeing and deciding on the activities of
the company. Subject to the requirements of
stock corporation law, the SAP Executive
Board is committed to the interests of SAP

and bound by company policy. It provides the
SAP Supervisory Board with regular, prompt,
and comprehensive reports about all essential
issues of business, corporate strategy, and
potential risks. Membership in the SAP
Executive Board is part of the official titles for
these board members.

SAP Financing

Service that helps companies invest in SAP
solutions implemented by a strategic partner
of SAP: Siemens Financial Services GmbH
(SFS). SFS targets the financing service
chiefly at midsize companies. Depending on
local conditions, the SFS plan leases solutions
to customers and provides loan finance.

SAP Fiori

First developed as a set of extensible HTML5
apps specific to key user roles, offering a
seamless user experience across devices
using responsive design principles. SAP Fiori
apps target all employees of existing SAP
customers, addressing the most common
business functions, such as workflow
approvals, information lookups, and self­
service tasks. In May 2014, SAP Fiori also
became the new user experience (UX) for
SAP software. Based on modern design
principles, it represents a consumer­like,
consistent experience across devices,
including tablets and smartphones.

SAP for Aerospace & Defense
(SAP for A&D)

Solution portfolio specifically designed to meet
the needs of the aerospace and defense
industry. It offers capabilities for maintenance,
repair and overhaul, airline operations,
defense, manufacturing, contract and program
management, and business acquisitions.

SAP for Automotive

Solution portfolio designed to meet the specific
needs of the automotive industry. Its
capabilities help link complex business
processes into a logical flow, maximizing
efficiency and profitability and satisfying
customers’ expectations.

SAP for Banking

Solution portfolio that enables banks to obtain all customer information at a glance and
offers a full complement of high­performance capabilities for strategic planning, financial
accounting, costing, and enterprise­wide control. It also features key industry­specific
applications for profitability management, risk management, customer relationship
management, and integrated customer account systems.

SAP for Chemicals

Solution portfolio that delivers support for
specific processes and tools that chemical
companies require. Industry­specific
capabilities include recipe management, batch
management, and version control.

SAP for Consumer Products

Solution portfolio that supports the integration
of every step of the consumer product value
chain – from suppliers to consumers. Key
capabilities include mobile and Internet sales,
trade promotion management, inventory
management, brand and channel
management, and demand signal
management.

SAP for Defense & Security

Solution portfolio that offers a variety of
capabilities that meet the critical needs of the
defense and security sector. Key industry­
specific capabilities include acquisition and
materials management; force planning;
maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO);
personnel and organization; infrastructure
management; planning and support for
deployed operations; in­service support; and
line maintenance.

SAP for Engineering,
Construction & Operations (SAP
for EC&O)

Solution portfolio designed to meet the specific
requirements of project­oriented enterprises
that offers capabilities for industrial plant
construction, construction of commercial and
private buildings, and shipbuilding.

SAP for Healthcare

Solution portfolio for hospitals and clinics to manage a variety of required administrative
and clinical processes.

SAP for High Tech

Solution portfolio that meets the demands of
high­tech industries, including RosettaNet
support.

SAP for Higher Education and
Research (SAP for HE&R)

Solution portfolio that supports organizational
processes and unique needs of public and
private universities, multicampus institutions,
research agencies, and medical colleges,
including campus management, grants
management, student life­cycle management,
financials, operations, human capital
management, procurement, analytics,
research, and asset management.

SAP for Industrial Machinery &
Components (SAP for IM&C)

Solution portfolio that coordinates the entire
scope of business activities (estimating, order
entry, project management, and production
planning) for the industrial sector and supports
areas ranging from maintenance and services
to billing and profitability analysis.

SAP for Insurance

Solution portfolio that integrates steps in the
insurance business process, including
capabilities for customer contact, policy and
product management, collections and
disbursement, and claims management.

SAP for Life Sciences

Solution portfolio that meets the requirements
of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and
diagnostics companies, as well as
manufacturers of medical devices and
products.

SAP for Media

Solution portfolio that supports processes
specific to the media industry with capabilities

that include sales and distribution, advertising
management, product development, and
intellectual property management.

SAP for Mill Products

Solution portfolio for manufacturers of building
materials, the paper and timber industry, metal
and primary metal producers, and textile and
furniture manufacturers.

SAP for Mining

Solution portfolio that supports processes
specific to the mining industry, including
mining operations and asset performance;
sales and supply chain management;
operational risk and compliance; as well as
human resources; finance; procurement; and
IT management.

SAP for Oil & Gas (SAP for O&G)

Solution portfolio that meets the demands of
oil and gas companies of all sizes.

SAP for Professional Services

Solution portfolio that delivers integrated tools,
best practices, and support for automated
processes designed specifically for the
demands of the professional services industry,
including management consultancies as well
as accounting and legal firms.

SAP for Public Sector

Solution portfolio for public administration,
providing an electronic framework that enables
online communication through various
applications for the public, government
authorities, and related entities.

SAP for Retail

Solution portfolio that offers multichannel
applications designed specifically to provide
the best retail services to a large customer
base.

SAP for Sports & Entertainment

Solution portfolio that comprises solutions for

sports teams, leagues, and venues, designed
to help them deepen fan engagement, drive
on­field performance, and optimize business
efficiency.

SAP for Telecommunications

Solution portfolio that provides
telecommunications enterprises of all types
and sizes a range of industry­specific
capabilities, including support for convergent
invoicing and contract accounting.

SAP for Transportation &
Logistics

Solution portfolio that covers the unique
business needs of postal services, railways,
airlines, and toll collection companies, as well
as logistics service providers, to optimize
supply chain and planning.

SAP for Utilities

Solution portfolio for all supply and energy
industries, with capabilities ranging from call
centers and Internet communications to
consumption billing.

SAP for Wholesale Distribution

Solution portfolio that addresses the needs of
midsize and large wholesale distribution
businesses in a wide range of segments.
Industry­specific capabilities support new
business models and strategies that meet the
needs of an important supply sector.

SAP Ganges

Name of a solution evolving from an SAP
project that focused on improving the IT
infrastructure of microbusinesses (small,
usually family­owned shop selling groceries
and other sundries). Solution includes
software for POS devices as well as services
provided to retailers, distributors, wholesalers,
and manufacturers. The services also include
providing banks with reporting that
supplements credit worthiness for retailers.
Solution is currently only available for the
Indian market.

SAP Gateway

A technology framework enabling exposure and simplified access to SAP software from
any device or environment using standard, open protocols. It opens data and processes
running on SAP applications for software developers to create apps in different
environments and devices to engage many more business consumers. Formerly called
SAP NetWeaver Gateway.

SAP Global Managing Board

The SAP Global Managing Board was
established in May 2012 in addition to the SAP
Executive Board and allows SAP to appoint a
broader range of global leaders to help steer
the organization. It comprises members of the
SAP Executive Board and selected additional
executives, and has advisory and decision­
supporting functions for the SAP Executive
Board. Per definition, all members of the SAP
Executive Board are members of the SAP
Global Managing Board.

SAP HANA

Flexible, data­agnostic, in­memory platform
that helps organizations analyze their
business operations, using huge volumes of
detailed transactional and analytic information
from virtually any data source. The platform
provides the foundation for innovative
applications that take advantage of an in­
memory database and calculation engine,
allowing customers to conduct complex
planning, forecasting, and simulation based on
real­time data.

SAP HANA Cloud Platform

An open cloud platform that is the foundation
for running applications and analytics today
and allows developers to build custom
applications in the cloud as either stand­alone
or connected to on­premise solutions. It
includes infrastructure, application, and
database services in a subscription model.
This platform allows developers from SAP,
customers, partners, and independent
software vendors to build applications in the
cloud with infrastructure, database, and
application services using in­memory
technology and the acceleration provided by
SAP HANA. Separately licensed, SAP HANA

Cloud Platform is part of SAP Cloud powered
by SAP HANA.

SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud

This service enables customers to access
solutions in the cloud. It contains managed
cloud applications, in­memory infrastructure,
managed services, and through an additional
license, SAP HANA Cloud Platform, to build
custom applications in the cloud. On­premise
applications from SAP can be delivered to
customers via SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud.

SAP HANA Live

Umbrella term for a group of analytics
foundations for SAP HANA, specific to an
industry or for a particular software (SAP
HANA Live for Event Management, SAP
HANA Live for SAP CRM), and so on, as well
as a browser (SAP HANA Live Browser).

SAP HANA One

Deployment of SAP HANA certified for
productive use on the Amazon Web Services
Cloud. SAP HANA One can be deployed for
production use with small data sets, in
minutes, opening a door to starter projects
from customers, ISVs, and startups.

SAP IQ

An analytics server designed specifically for
advanced analytics, data warehousing, and
business intelligence environments. Able to
work with massive volumes of structured and
unstructured data, it is ideally suited to take
advantage of Big Data opportunities by
discovering more accurate insight into
business performance and market dynamics.
Formerly called SAP Sybase IQ.

SAP Jam

Social software platform that includes the
former SuccessFactors Jam, SAP
StreamWork, and new software. It enables
sales teams and internal experts to socially
connect and communicate with customers in
the context of each opportunity. Customers
can also easily provide feedback and share

what is important to them to strengthen
relationships.

SAP Learning Solution

Portfolio of learning tools including a learning
portal, learning management system,
authoring tools, and content management
system. Individual training and strategic
personnel development are supported in the
solution.

SAP Lumira

Data visualization software that helps connect,
access, and visualize data without a single line
of code.

SAP Managed Services

Organization and offerings that enable SAP
customers to access SAP applications and
that provide the infrastructure required. In this
way, solutions are ready to use and can be
adapted to customers’ growing requirements.

SAP Manufacturing

Solution for managing manufacturing
operations with embedded lean manufacturing
and Six Sigma principles. It provides
capabilities for planning, execution, quality,
maintenance, as well as environment, health,
and safety.

SAP Match Insights

An showcase on­premise solution developed
as part of a customer co­innovation project for
the German Soccer Association (DFB). The
solution was available for DFB coaches and
players in a pilot trial during the preparation
phase and throughout the 2014 FIFA World
Cup in Brazil. The solution enables members
across the DFB team to analyze players' and
teams' performances in individual matches
using streamed video from the match
combined with analytics powered by SAP
HANA.

SAP MaxAttention

Support option with a full range of services

customized for individual customer needs and
covering all stages of an SAP solution’s
lifecycle, driven by an on­site technical quality
manager.

SAP Mobile

Category term used to communicate all SAP
mobile offerings together. These include any
type of mobile apps, solutions, technology, or
platform (including SAP Mobile Platform), as
well as solutions extensions and rapid­
deployment solutions and any Sybase­related
products.

SAP Mobile Platform

A platform of mobile capabilities and
technology that bundles three existing
offerings under one name (Sybase Unwired
Platform, Sybase Mobiliser, and a Syclo
offering named Agentry). SAP Mobile Platform
is offered in enterprise or consumer editions
and each edition is available as either an on­
premise or a cloud version.

SAP Month of Service

Held in October, SAP’s signature corporate
volunteerism effort offers SAP employees
around the world opportunities to come
together to support social change in their
communities.

SAP NetWeaver

A comprehensive technology platform
designed to efficiently develop, run, and
extend business applications. SAP NetWeaver
provides foundation and enterprise software,
including the SAP Business Warehouse
application, and the SAP NetWeaver
Application Server, SAP Enterprise Portal, and
SAP Process Orchestration components. It
facilitates the easy integration of SAP software
with heterogeneous system environments,
third­party solutions, and external business
partners. See “technology platform.”

SAP NetWeaver Application
Server (SAP NetWeaver AS)

Component of SAP NetWeaver that provides
support for platform­independent Web

services, business applications, and
standards­based development based upon
key technologies such as Java and ABAP.

SAP NetWeaver Business
Intelligence

See “SAP Business Warehouse.”

SAP Notes

Tool that provides instructions on how to
remove known errors from SAP software,
including a description of the symptoms,
cause, and location of the errors.

SAP ONE Service

A single channel for SAP support and
maintenance customers to access all SAP
support delivery engagements that come with
SAP MaxAttention and SAP ActiveEmbedded
offerings.

SAP ONE Support

A program to simplify the delivery and
consumption of support and maintenance for a
growing portfolio of solutions from both SAP
and acquired companies. The program
provides customers with comprehensive and
harmonized support, regardless of whether
their SAP solutions operate on premise or in
the cloud.

SAP PartnerEdge

Global, partner­to­partner business
collaboration network where SAP partners can
share expertise, development capabilities,
solutions, and knowledge to extend their
market reach. In late 2012, SAP’s extranet for
partners, SAP Channel Partner Portal, merged
with SAP PartnerEdge. The combined site,
available at www.sappartneredge.com now
gives partners access to information, product
and business news, tools, training, and
business resources to order products.
Partners can also manage their relationship
with SAP and collaborate with other SAP
partners through SAP PartnerEdge.

SAP Pinnacle Award

Annual partner recognition awarded to SAP partners in various categories.

SAP PowerBuilder

Application development tool for creating high­
performance, data­driven business
applications with advanced visual user
interface design. Formerly called SAP Sybase
PowerBuilder.

SAP PowerDesigner

Business process and data modeling software
and metadata management solution for data
architecture, information architecture, and
enterprise architecture. Available in enterprise
editions tailored to data architects or business
analysts. Formerly called SAP Sybase
PowerDesigner.

SAP Premier Customer Network

Exclusive SAP community of top industry
leaders representing some of the world’s
largest and best­run businesses. For these
premier customers, SAP aims to simplify and
tailor the partnership toward the unique needs
of each customer by proactively assembling
the best talent and synchronization across all
SAP lines of business (product development,
sales, services, support, and marketing)
globally.

SAP Product Lifecycle
Management (SAP PLM)

Application that helps companies manage,
track, and control all product­related
information over the complete product and
asset lifecycle as well as throughout the
extended supply chain. SAP PLM is designed
to facilitate creativity and to free the process of
product innovation from organizational
constraints.

SAP R/2

Business software for mainframe computers
launched by SAP in 1979; precursor to SAP
R/3.

SAP R/3

Business software for client/server environments launched by SAP in 1992 with
enterprise software components for human resources, logistics, financials, sales and
distribution, and others; precursor to SAP ERP.

SAP Ramp­up

Program SAP uses to introduce new
application releases on the market to selected
customers during the restricted shipment
phase.

SAP Rapid Deployment Solutions

Packages of preconfigured software and
predefined services with content including best
practices, templates, tools, and business user
enablement with predetermined scope, time,
and costs. Because the solutions are installed
quickly, customers can benefit from crucial
software functionality within as little as 12
weeks, helping lower the total cost of
implementation and giving customers
immediate and tangible value.

SAP Replication Server

Software that moves and synchronizes data in
real time, allowing companies to gain better
use of application data and to create reports
without affecting operational systems.
Administrators can set up redundant disaster
recovery sites and distribute, consolidate, and
synchronize data across multiple platforms.
Formerly called SAP Sybase Replication
Server.

SAP Resolve

A new help desk program for SAP partners to
manage customer support problems and
queries.

SAP road maps

Available for industries, lines of business, and
technology, SAP road maps highlight the SAP
solutions available today, planned innovation,
and the SAP vision for the future.

SAP S/4HANA

A family name for SAP’s next­generation
business suite offered exclusively on the SAP
HANA platform, with on­premise and cloud
deployment options. Also known by its full
name SAP Business Suite 4 SAP HANA.

SAP Safeguarding

Project­based support option that helps
customers manage risks and enable the
technical robustness of SAP solutions during
implementation, upgrade, and operations.

SAP Service and Support

Service and support from SAP helps
customers derive value from their SAP
solutions in a fast, cost­effective, and
predictable way. The SAP Service and
Support portfolio includes a variety of named
services and support offerings including SAP
MaxAttention, SAP Safeguarding, SAP
Enterprise Support, and others.

SAP Service Marketplace

Extranet platform that offers capabilities for
collaboration between SAP, customers, and
partners. The extranet provides central access
and guided navigation to SAP’s complete
product listing with support, maintenance, and
upgrade information.

SAP Simple Finance

A global financial solution powered by SAP
HANA offering a complete choice of
deployment (cloud, on premise, hybrid). For
customers who choose to deploy SAP Simple
Finance in the cloud, SAP offers SAP HANA
Enterprise Cloud as a managed service,
available via full subscription.

SAP Smart Business

Cockpit dashboards that enable users to
quickly aggregate data, perform analytics, and
gain insights into KPIs related to various
corporate functions. A variety of options are
available for specific use cases/roles including

accounts payable, event management,
financial close, purchasing, and other
corporate functions.

SAP SMS 365

Interoperability services that simplify the
deployment and delivery of inter­operator
messaging over incompatible networks,
protocol stacks, and handsets among mobile
operators worldwide. Messages are delivered
through a secure operator­grade messaging
platform, with advanced protocol conversion,
routing, queuing, and transcoding capabilities.

SAP Solidarity Fund

The SAP Solidarity Fund e.V. was set up by
SAP employees as an immediate response to
the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001.
The goal of this charitable association was to
help people – as a result of a natural disaster,
for example – quickly and with minimum
bureaucracy. The activities of the SAP
Solidarity Fund are made possible mainly
through contributions from SAP employees
and people associated with SAP. Since its
foundation, the SAP Solidarity Fund has
managed to make more than €2 million
available for various projects.

SAP Solution Explorer

A customer­facing self­service tool that helps
users find the business management software
solutions they need from SAP to operate
profitably, adapt continuously, and grow
sustainably. Content includes value maps and
executive summaries for all SAP­supported
lines of businesses, industries, technology,
and selected topics.

SAP Solution Manager

Application management solution that enables
customers to manage their SAP and non­SAP
applications better. With SAP Solution
Manager, customers can centralize, enhance,
automate, and improve the management of
their entire system landscape, thus reducing
total cost of ownership. The solution includes
features such as diagnostics, testing, root
cause analysis, and solution monitoring.

SAP solutions for customer
engagement and commerce

Category of solutions that help businesses
create experiences that engage customers like
never before and can lead to more effective
marketing promotions, increased revenue
share of new customers, reduced customer
churn, increased revenue growth, and
improved cart­to­order conversion rate.

SAP solutions for enterprise
information management (EIM)

Category of solutions that help you deliver
integrated, accurate, and timely data across
your enterprise.

SAP solutions for enterprise
performance management (EPM)

Category of solutions that helps companies
improve performance, organizational agility,
and decision making.

SAP solutions for fan engagement

Category of solutions to help sports teams and
entertainment venues interact with their fans
to drive engagement and revenue.

SAP solutions for governance,
risk, and compliance (GRC)

Category of solutions that provide
organizations with a real­time approach to
managing GRC across heterogeneous
environments.

SAP solutions for small
businesses and midsize
companies

Category of solutions that combine business
management and business intelligence
software for small and midsize enterprises
(SMEs). It currently includes SAP Business
All­in­One solution, SAP Business One
application, and SAP BusinessObjects Edge
solutions. As with large enterprises, these
firms seek to streamline business processes,
cut costs, drive growth, and increase
profitability by receiving the right information at
the right time – across all operations.

SAP solutions for sustainability

Category of solutions that helps companies

measure sustainability key performance
indicators; energy and carbon management;
and environment, health, and safety. SAP
solutions for sustainability help organizations
tackle energy consumption and greenhouse
gas emissions, as well as support efforts in
product safety, healthcare, and sustainability
performance management.

SAP SQL Anywhere

A mobile, embedded, and cloud­enabled fully
relational database that is embedded in more
than 10 million installations worldwide, from
laptops to tablets to smartphones. Formerly
called SAP Sybase SQL Anywhere.

SAP Standard Support

Support option offering a reliable response to
technical disruptions and for maintaining
system health and integrity. This basic support
offering features including updates, problem
resolution, knowledge transfer, quality
management, and more to keep IT landscapes
up­to­date and stable.

SAP Startup Focus

Program that offers a variety of resources for
young companies including technology,
training, technical advice and valuable go­to­
market support. It serves as a development
and growth accelerator that provides an
integrated approach for startups to innovate
on the SAP HANA platform.

SAP StreamWork

See “SAP Jam.”

SAP Supplier Relationship
Management (SAP SRM)

Procurement application that helps
organizations in all industries improve their
centralized sourcing and contract
management and interact with suppliers
through multiple channels. SAP SRM is
designed to accelerate and optimize the entire
end­to­end procure­to­pay process by
supporting integrated processes and by
enforcing contract compliance, which can
result in realizable savings.

SAP Supply Chain Management
(SAP SCM)

Application that helps companies adapt their
supply­chain processes to a rapidly changing
competitive environment. SAP SCM helps
transform traditional supply chains from linear,
sequential processes into open, configurable,
responsive supply networks in which
customer­centric, demand­driven companies
can monitor and respond more smartly and
quickly to demand and supply dynamics
across a globally distributed environment.

SAP TechEd

Annual technical education conference that
encompasses a broad scope of topics and
audience, focusing on technology with an
emphasis on collaboration and hands­on
workshops.

SAP University Alliances

Program that introduces students to the
exciting technologies shaping business today,
and designed to connect students around the
world interested in SAP solutions, careers,
and research opportunities. Students
participate in classroom sessions, app
development, networking opportunities,
events, and more. As part of SAP Community
Network. the SAP University Alliances
community provides connections between
university leaders and students, SAP
customers and partners, and SAP internal
experts.

SAP User Group Executive
Network (SUGEN)

In 2007, SAP initiated a program that
encouraged all SAP user groups to share their
expertise and recommended practices with the
wider user­group community. It kindled some
valuable discussion, which, in the end, is good
for all SAP stakeholders. An umbrella
organization, SUGEN embraces 12 national
SAP user groups with the shared aim of
defining priorities and agreeing on plans of
action to bring greater focus to the dialog
between SAP and its user groups on the
global plane.

SAP Ventures

see “Sapphire Ventures.”

SAP Web Channel Experience
Management

An application that SAP developed to address
companies’ needs to deliver an integrated and
consistent customer experience over the
Internet. The software allows organizations to
deploy state­of­the­ art Web shops, fully
integrated with their back­end order
management and inventory systems. This next
generation e­commerce solution also brings
together e­marketing, sales, online self­
service, and social customer conversations on
a single platform to provide a one­stop,
synchronized Web customer experience.
Formerly called SAP Sybase PowerBuilder.

SAPPHIRE NOW

SAP’s signature business technology event
and the largest SAP customer­driven
conference is held annually in several
locations around the globe. The global event
in the United States is co­located with the
Americas’ SAP Users’ Group (ASUG) annual
conference. Attendees discover new
initiatives, solutions, products, and services,
as well as unique access to the latest
business strategies and industry best
practices from SAP customers, partners,
executives, and industry experts to help them
drive business results across all levels.

Sapphire Ventures

New name of independent venture firm spun
off from SAP, providing the agility of a start­up
while allowing companies to tap into SAP’s
global enterprise ecosystem of customers and
partners. The firm partners with outstanding
entrepreneurs and venture firms worldwide to
build industry­leading businesses. Formerly
called SAP Ventures.

Scope 1 (emissions)

Direct greenhouse gas emissions from
sources that are owned or controlled by the

reporting company, for example, fuel burned in
corporate cars.

Scope 2 (emissions)

Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from
consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or
steam.

Scope 3 (emissions)

Indirect emissions that are a consequence of
the activities of the reporting company, but
occur from sources owned or controlled by
another company, such as business flights.

SMB Solutions Group

New business unit created at SAP in 2014
responsible for the go­to­market strategy and
development of innovative solutions for the
small and midsize business (SMB) market,
comprising companies with <500 employees
only. Includes all corporate areas (marketing,
sales, and development) responsible for SAP
Business ByDesign, SAP Business One, and
the new SAP Anywhere front­office solution for
small businesses. See “SAP Anywhere.”

software and software­related
services (SSRS)

SAP reports revenues in software and
software­related services (SSRS), which
encompasses software, support, subscription,
and other software­related service revenue.

software as a service (SaaS)

Software that is provided literally “as a
service.” Software applications are delivered
and managed remotely over a secure Internet
connection and a standard Web browser.
Access is charged on a subscription basis
usually on a dedicated time basis and with
expandable feature access options. Typically
a defined level of support is included. See
“cloud computing.”

solution

SAP solutions enable a customer to meet a
challenge or take advantage of an opportunity
and are built or assembled by flexibly

combining SAP applications and other SAP
software. The solutions may include support
for best business practices and be aided by
consulting and ongoing support. They may
also be enhanced or extended by SAP partner
applications and services.

solution extensions

Developed by independent partners, solution
extensions integrate easily with SAP software,
offering customers cross­solution and cross­
industry functions that complement SAP
software. These select third­party offerings are
branded with “SAP,” and sold and supported
by SAP and partners.

standard­related custom
development project (SCDP)

Customer­specific development with a
contractually binding commitment for at least a
partial retrofit.

SuccessFactors

Acquired by SAP in 2013, the company
operates as an independent business under
the name “SuccessFactors, an SAP
company.”

SuccessFactors Compensation

As part of SuccessFactors HCM Suite, this
solution helps companies create a more
simplified compensation plan management
with more accurate budgeting and reduced
risk. With performance data is calibrated
across the company to ensure fairness and
employee retention, insight for total employee
compensation analysis and assurance that
budgets are used wisely, companies can
retain top performers. Risk can be significantly
reduced with improved audit compliance.

SuccessFactors Employee
Central

The foundation of the SuccessFactors HCM
Suite of solutions, Employee Central is a next­
generation core HR software delivered
securely as a service from the SuccessFactors
cloud. It offers one global system of record,
complete workforce overview combining HR
and talent data, powerful analytics, and social

collaboration fine­tuned to meet local needs. It
is currently available in 10 countries. An
additional offering specifically for payroll was
launched in 2013 called SAP SuccessFactors
Employee Central Payroll.

SuccessFactors HCM Suite

Suite of HR solutions for talent management,
core HR, collaboration, and workforce
analytics. The cloud­based suite provides
solutions to bridge the gap between strategy
and execution with tools to hire, reward, and
develop the right people with the right skills to
grow a business sustainably. Formerly called
SuccessFactors Business Execution Suite
(SuccessFactors BizX Suite).

SuccessFactors Learning

As an integrated part of SuccessFactors HCM
Suite, this solution helps companies transform
how a workforce learns by combining formal,
social, and extended learning with content
management, reporting, and analytics,
available from an office or on a mobile device.

SuccessFactors Workforce
Analytics

As part of SuccessFactors HCM Suite, this
solution helps companies get the insights they
need to make strategic workforce decisions by
finding answers to key questions about
workforce challenges and how to solve them.

support package

Bundle of software corrections compiled
periodically and available for ABAP or Java
programming languages.

support release

Release offered after the beginning of the
unrestricted shipment phase – if required –
that contains a collection of all previously
available support packages.

sustainability

For SAP, sustainability is the ability to manage
economic, social, and environmental risks and
opportunities holistically for increased

profitability. It contributes to our vision to help
the world run better and improve peoples’
lives. SAP is committed to fully integrating
sustainability into our strategy and business
model and in this way the company pursues a
corporate strategy that is sustainable rather
than a stand­alone sustainability strategy.

Sybase

Company acquired by SAP in 2010,
broadening the SAP portfolio for enterprise
mobility, introducing a complete mobile
platform and mobile solutions that enable
customer access to data stored in SAP
software and systems from anywhere and
from any device.

Syclo

Company acquired by SAP in 2012. Former
Syclo solutions extend SAP ERP and SAP
CRM for mission­critical work on the go and
out in the field. They offer a quick, flexible,
reliable path to mobilizing asset management,
field service, inventory/warehouse, and sales,
regardless of language, user type, device
selection, or connectivity.

systems integrator (SI)

Company focused on integrating IT systems
and providing related consulting. This is a
classic channel used by large software
vendors, large hardware vendors, and original
equipment manufacturers.

technology platform

The technical foundation for a business­driven
software architecture that increases the
adaptability, flexibility, openness, and cost­
efficiency of IT operations and enables
organizations to become more agile in
responding to change. See “SAP
NetWeaver.”

total energy consumed

The sum of all energy consumed through
SAP’s own operations, including energy from
renewable sources and energy consumed by
external data centers delivering our cloud

offerings.

United Nations Global Compact
(UN Global Compact)

A policy initiative for businesses that are
committed to aligning their operations and
strategies with ten universally accepted
principles in the areas of human rights, labor
standards, environment, and anti­corruption.

unrestricted shipment phase

Second phase of release delivery, during
which all customers can obtain the release.
The phase follows the restricted shipment
phase.

upgrade

Replacement of an existing application
component with a newer component of that
same application.

value map

A structural overview of SAP’s end­to­end
solutions organized according to industry, line
of business, or technology. Value maps are
presented in SAP Solution Explorer.

value­added reseller (VAR)

Partner that receives the majority of its
revenue from reselling a vendor’s hardware or
software solutions directly to end users.
Additionally, VARs often provide consulting,
implementation, postsales support, and
training to their own customers. VARs may
develop and sell add­on applications to meet
the needs of vertical markets and may expand
SAP product functionality.

vertical solution

A specialized application designed to meet the
unique needs of a particular business or
industry. Also called “industry solution.”

virtualization

The decoupling of physical and logical
computer resources. This approach can be
implemented on different levels such as

network, storage, central processing unit,
server, and application.

visual enterprise

Ability to visually communicate parts of the
business helps maximize productivity, improve
process efficiency and quality, and reduce
cost and cycle time. Solutions that support the
“visual enterprise” unify and synchronize
product information from multiple systems and
deliver it in role­specific and workflow­
controlled processes to people. The SAP 3­D
Visual Enterprise applications, resulting from
the RightHemisphere acquisition, enrich SAP
Business Suite software with new 3­D
visualization features that integrate business
data, which will support new standards to
increase speed, enhance productivity, and
improve quality across the entire value chain.

women in management

Phrase used to refer to the percentage of
women in management positions (managing
teams, managing managers, executive
boards) as compared to the total number of
managers, expressed by the number of
individuals and not full­time equivalents
(FTEs).

works council

As dictated by the German Works Council
Constitution Act, a works council is a legal
body for representing employees’ interests to
the employer and codetermining the works in
private companies. On June 21, 2006, the
SAP AG employees working in Germany
elected its first works council. A European
works council was created in the spring of
2012. The SAP AG works council evolved to
become the SAP SE works council in 2014 to
reflect the legal entity of SAP SE.

