2015 INTEGRATED REPORT
SUSTAINABILITY CONTENT

Reimagine
Your Business

Fehler! Kein Text mit angegebener Formatvorlage im Dokument. About This Report
Created: 29.03.2016 09:48

1

Contents
About This Report ...................................................................... 3
Materiality ................................................................................... 4
Stakeholder Engagement ......................................................... 6
Recognition ................................................................................ 8
Sustainability Management and Policies ................................. 9
Business Conduct, Ethics, and Integrity .................................12
Public Policy ..............................................................................16
Memberships ............................................................................18
Security, Privacy, and Data Protection ...................................19
Sustainable Procurement ........................................................21
Human Rights and Labor Standards ...................................... 23
Waste and Water ...................................................................... 26
Non-Financial Notes: Social Performance............................. 28
Non-Financial Notes Environmental Performance .............. 30
Management’s Acknowledgement of the
SAP Integrated Report 2015 ................................................... 36
Integrated Performance Analysis:
A holistic view of our performance ......................................... 37
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance
indicators are interconnected ................................................ 40
Independent Assurance Report.............................................. 47

2

About This Report
CONTENT
Since 2012, we have reported on our full year financial, social,
and environmental performance in one integrated report (“SAP
Integrated Report”) which is available at
www.sapintegratedreport.com. The SAP Integrated Report 2015
contains a comprehensive and integrated presentation of our
performance in 2015 based on both financial and non-financial
measures and is exclusively available online. Additionally, we
continue to provide the “SAP Annual Report 2015.” This report is
an excerpt from the SAP Integrated Report 2015 which
comprises all of the information legally required to be presented
to our shareholders. This SAP Annual Report 2015 is available in
PDF format as well as in print.
The financial reporting presented in the SAP Integrated Report
includes our Consolidated Financial Statements, our combined
Management Report, and certain financial measures derived
from our management reporting. The non-financial data
presented includes aspects of intellectual, human, social and
relationship, and environmental capitals derived from our
materiality assessment.
Our online SAP Integrated Report is aligned with the content
elements suggested in the International Integrated Reporting
Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC).
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Our combined Management Report is prepared in accordance
with sections 315 and 315a of the German Commercial Code and
German Accounting Standards No. 17 and 20. The combined
Management Report is also a management commentary
complying with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) Practice Statement Management Commentary.
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in
accordance with IFRS. Internal control over financial reporting
ensures the reliability of the information presented in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Our executive management
has confirmed the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting.
The social and environmental data and information included in
the SAP Integrated Report is prepared in accordance with the
core option of the international guidelines G4 of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI). We applied the GRI principles for
defining report content (sustainability context, stakeholder
inclusiveness, materiality, and completeness). We applied the
principle of sustainability context in a number of ways, such as

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content About This Report

looking at global issues or trends including climate change and
demographic shifts. For example, we assessed our greenhouse
gas emissions in the context of the emissions of the entire
information and communications technology landscape, with
particular focus on the abatement potential of the industry.
When it comes to completeness, we recognize that while we
comply with this principle in reporting on our own operations, we
are still developing methodologies to reliably quantify our
impact through our solutions. In addition, the non-financial
information has been prepared by applying the principles of
inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness. Greenhouse gas
data was prepared based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
DATA
All financial and non-financial data and information for the
reporting period was aggregated and reported utilizing SAP
software solutions and was sourced from the responsible
business units.
The reporting period is fiscal year 2015. The report
encompasses SAP SE and all subsidiaries of the SAP Group. To
make this report as current as possible, we have included
relevant information available up to the auditor’s opinion and the
responsibility statement dated February 25, 2016. The report is
available in English and in German.
INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND ASSURANCE
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited our
Consolidated Financial Statements and our combined
Management Report (see the Independent Auditor’s Report).
Additionally, KPMG has provided assurance on selected nonfinancial, social, and environmental data and information in
accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements
(ISAE)
3000,
and
3410
(“Assurance
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”), two pertinent
standards for the assurance of sustainability reporting. Where
our SAP Integrated Report makes reference to our SAP public
Web site, that Web site information is unaudited. Both the
Independent Auditor’s Report and the Independent Assurance
Report for non-financial information are available in the
Independent Auditor's Report and Independent Assurance
Report section.
For more information about the reasons we publish an
integrated report, about our materiality assessment, and related
stakeholder engagement, see the About Integrated Reporting,
Materiality,
and
Stakeholder
Engagement
sections.

3

Materiality
 We have identified Human and Intellectual Capital management, Data
security and privacy, financial performance, business conduct and climate
change as material for our business.
 Our materiality approach follows the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI).
 The scope of our materiality assessment includes our own operations and
how we enable our customers to create social, environmental and
economic impact.
We continuously update and assess material aspects that are
relevant to our innovation and sustainable growth and also
reflect our four corporate objectives. Our materiality approach is
based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines,
which define material aspects as those that “reflect an
organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social
impacts, or substantively influence the assessments and
decisions of stakeholders.” We also conduct materiality
assessments for our financial reporting based on the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The process
described here pertains to issues that fall outside these financial
statement related materiality considerations.
Over the past years we increasingly expanded our materiality
approach towards understanding our economic, social and
environmental value creation. We do this from two distinct
points of view: SAP as a company (which includes our
operations and supply chain) and SAP as a solution provider
(which is how we serve our customers). Our goal is to determine
materiality based on what is most relevant to our core business
strategy. By analyzing our impacts as a solution provider, we
can incorporate our conclusions as we create a sustainable
strategy. Such a strategy enables us to holistically manage the
economic, environmental, and social contexts in which we
operate.
ASSESSING AND RATING THE RELEVANCE OF NUMEROUS
ISSUES
We followed the GRI G4 guidelines, assessing the materiality of
topics: identification, prioritization, and validation by our
external sustainability advisory panel and our chief sustainability
officer. We composed an initial list of topics referenced in the

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Materiality

GRI G4 guidelines, as well as those that emerged from our
various engagements with stakeholders and our sustainability
advisory panel, or the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) provisional standard for the Technology and
Communications sector. We cluster detailed indicators of the
various frameworks against our six material aspects, at which
level we manage our company. Based on the feedback of our
sustainability advisory panel in November 2015, in 2016 we will
reassess our material aspects with respect to the trend of
outcome reporting.
Our initial 2015 review confirmed our identified most material
topics, which are also clearly interrelated to our four financial
and non-financial core objectives namely revenue, profit,
employee engagement and customer loyalty. In this we link our
material aspects of Human and Intellectual capital management,
Climate and Energy and Financial Performance clearly to the
core elements of our integrated performance analysis. Data
Security and Privacy are the foundation of our business model.
We will continue to evaluate how business conduct is connected
with our financial and non-financial performance.
DRAWING CONCLUSIONS AND UNDERSTANDING THE
IMPLICATIONS OF OUR ASSESSMENT
We identified six main areas that are material to SAP as a
company. For the most part, these are consistent with our past
assessments and comprise:
– Human capital management – Helps us ensure we employ,
develop, integrate and retain the very best talent within our
company and be attractive to potential employees

4

– Intellectual capital management – Helps us innovate and
deliver new solutions with the highest quality through
continuous organizational learning, people development, and
suitable internal structures and processes. Such capital also
leads to increased customer loyalty
– Security and privacy – Ensures we design and deliver our
solutions in ways that afford the very highest levels of data
security and privacy control
– Financial performance – Mirrors the success of our strategy
and ensures our long-term viability
– Business conduct – Ensures we conduct our business
activities while upholding the highest levels of behavior, as set
out in the SAP Code of Business Conduct for Employees and
other company policies
– Climate and energy – Helps us offer solutions to our
customers for reducing energy consumption and emissions,
find ways to minimize the environmental impact of our
solutions and transform our corporate operations
accordingly
While these issues are critical for us as a company, we see our
solutions touching on a broad range of issues that are highly
material to our customers – from financial viability to natural
resources, energy, and human rights. While we do offer
solutions in some of these areas, technology such as SAP HANA
and our Cloud offerings hold enormous potential to help our
customers improve and differentiate their own operations and
impacts. For example, our software already enables many of the
world’s largest companies to better measure, track, and manage
their resource consumption, as well as increase their efficiency
in a host of areas. Addressing our most material impacts means
finding additional ways to support our customers in becoming
more sustainable organizations. In this sense, our materiality
assessment helps point the way to creating an integrated
strategy, in which sustainability is seamlessly connected to how
we serve our customers and drive our own long-term success.

As noted above, we have already headed down this path with a
number of our solutions, which are enabling our customers to
comply with regulation, become more efficient, operate more
sustainably, and begin to transform how business is conducted.
We also have more to do – for example, we have not yet created
a methodology to quantify our impact as a solution provider. To
do so, we will continue to work with customers and partners.
Namely, we need to understand our impacts in the context of
the limits and demands of economic, environmental, and social
resources. As a founding member we joined the Global
Partnership for Sustainable Development Data to help monitor
the progress of achieving the recently released 17 Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG). We will continue to assess and
describe how our technologies can contribute to the SDGs,
thereby creating positive social, environmental and economic
value by enabling customers. With the release of these global
goals we observe an increasing trend in our customer base to
initiate business transformations based on new sustainable
corporate strategies. Supporting our customers with our
solutions enables them to execute accordingly and helps us on
our journey to fulfill our vision.
We will continue to drive behavioral change throughout SAP
through bottom-up strategies such as employee engagement,
education, and the promotion of peer leadership and role
models. We will also continue to emphasize co-innovation with
our customers, as customers are the means through which we
can help create long-term, sustainable change. We will work with
our customers to enable them navigate global trends, such as
hyperconnectivity, cloud computing, and Big Data, which go
hand-in-hand with social and business trends that are changing
how we live and work. Rapid urbanization, the sharing economy,
enormous demographic change, and resource scarcity are
demanding that leaders of tomorrow adapt to a world in which
the pace of change continues to accelerate. Based on this we will
continue to develop criteria to evaluate our sustainability
impacts to help us inform and refine our materiality assessment.

APPLYING OUR ASSESSMENT TO FURTHER DEVELOP AN
INTEGRATED STRATEGY
Our environmental and social performance remains critically
important to SAP. We have gained important insights into
helping our customers tackle challenges by doing so ourselves,
especially by presenting the impact of our non-financial
performance on our financial performance. In addition, working
to become more sustainable has fed our innovation and
improved our bottom line. SAP’s sustainability performance, as
well as our work to create a sustainable corporate strategy, is
also of increased importance to investors and newer
generations of talent we want to attract and hire. At the same
time, we recognize that it is in our role of solution provider that
we continue on the path to creating the greatest customer value
and designing our integrated strategy. In addition, we continue
to explain our approach to our employees and other key
stakeholders to enlist them in realizing our vision “Help the
world run better and improve people’s lives”.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Materiality

5

Stakeholder
Engagement
 We drive innovation and the development of our solutions in close cooperation with our key stakeholders.
 We communicate with our identified key stakeholder groups continuously.
 We provide insight into the various engagement activities with selected
examples.
For SAP, stakeholder engagement and collaboration are deeply
embedded into our process of innovation and the development
of our solutions. Before we can design a new solution, we must
first understand the issue we are addressing. For this reason,
design thinking and co-innovation are essential. At the same
time, this process is not complete. With any innovation, there is
often a time lag before stakeholders understand and absorb the
full implications of a new solution. In other words, we need to
update our license to operate by continually assessing and
managing the additional responsibilities brought about by
innovation.
To fully understand these responsibilities, we regularly engage
with seven key stakeholder groups that are most relevant to our
business, as well as our Sustainability Advisory Panel. We have
selected these groups as they are critical to our value creation.
This dialog also influences our materiality assessment.
CUSTOMERS
Ensuring our customers’ success is core to everything we do. In
addition to the sales engagement cycle, we also engage
customers through industry value networks, co-innovation
projects, customer councils, and customer-organized user
groups throughout the world. The Customer Engagement
Initiative provides early insight to SAP product planning,
allowing our customers to influence and collaborate around our
product development cycle. We also gather customer feedback
regularly through our “SAP Listens” customer and partner
feedback program. In addition our customer facing
organizations like sales, consulting, education or support have
multiple touch points with customers on a daily basis.

Dedicated customer officers are directly attached to the
members of the global management board. As one cornerstone
of our corporate objectives we measure customer loyalty on an
annual basis.
Further Information
For more information on customer surveys, see the Customers
section.
EMPLOYEES
We survey employees annually, conducting pulse checks
throughout the year. The Supervisory Board comprises 50%
employee representation, and management regularly engages
with employee works councils. In addition, the Global Man-aging
Board answers employees’ questions in all-hands meetings that
take place every quarter. In quarterly coffee corner sessions,
senior executives explain our strategy to employees and answer
their questions directly. Through topic related discussion blogs
executives engage regularly with employees, foster an open
discussion and receive focused feedback globally.
Further Information
For the results of our latest employee survey and how SAP is
responding, see the Employee Engagement section.
GOVERNMENTS
We advise governments and administrations worldwide on
critical IT topics, such as digitization, the Cloud and Big Data,
which play a key role in creating new efficiencies and spurring
economic growth.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Stakeholder Engagement

6

Further Information
For more information on our policy engagement in 2015, see the
Public Policy section.
INDUSTRY ANALYSTS
Our Analyst Relations team, the Global Managing Board and
executives interact with IT analysts on a frequent basis.
Further Information
We updated IT analysts, for example, on SAP HANA, our
enterprise applications, our industry solutions, our Cloud
solutions, our ecosystem, and our services. The latest industry
positioning material integrates economic, social and
environmental impact creation.
FINANCIAL ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS
Our Investor Relations team and the Global Managing Board
conduct one-to-one briefings with financial analysts and
institutional investors, as well as investor road shows, quarterly
earnings calls and our annual general meeting; the investor
relations team also engages with the sustainable investment
community in close cooperation with the sustainability team; the
global treasury team interacts regularly with debt investors.
Further Information
For more information on our dialog with investors, see the
Investor Relations section.
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOS) AND
ACADEMIA
Our dialog with NGOs, NPOs and academic institutions helps us
understand how we can help address today’s most pressing
issues with our solutions and what is expected from us as a
corporation.
Further Information
In 2015, United Nations adopted the Post-2015 Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), a to-do list to end poverty, fight
inequality and tackle climate change. SAP was a founding
partner of IMPACT 2030, a business-led coalition that aligns
companies and their employee volunteer efforts with the SDGs
to address the needs of our rapidly changing world and create
real and sustainable change. In addition to SAP, the network of
businesses includes: IBM, Google, GSK, TATA Consultancy
Services, and The Dow Chemical Company.
In response to the refugee crisis in the middle east and Europe,
SAP aims to join forces with local and federal governmental
organizations. SAP and SAP employees’ donations support a
range of local and national refugee aid non-profit organizations
as well as the UN Refugee Agency.
In 2015 we continued to expand our strategic partnerships with
non-profit organizations in the area of STEM education.
Together with the Cape Town Science Centre, the Galway
Education Centre and 100 other Non-Profit Organisations and

government partners, SAP launched the Africa Code Week. This
initiative provides young people with the coding tools and skills
they need to thrive in the digital economy and further Africa’s
economic development. SAP was also a key partner with the
European Commission for EU Code Week.
We extensively work with academia through the SAP University
Alliances program, providing students at more than 1200
universities with hands-on experience working with SAP
software and solutions.
On the openSAP platform we expanded our offerings of free of
charge massive open online classes (MOOC’s) covering
introductory and advanced classes of SAP technology. We also
repeated our course on “Sustainability and Business Innovation”
to the interested public audience.
Our investment in the Livelihoods Fund creates social impact in
rural communities and for the second year in a row we received
offsets mitigating our overall CO2 emissions in 2015.
PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
Our partners are also key to our growth, as they help us coinnovate solutions, sell and implement solutions at customer
sites. The spirit of cooperation and engagement is exemplified
by the online SAP Community Network, which now includes
more than two million members. We have also started to work
with selected suppliers to understand how we can help each
other improve.
Further Information
As with customers, we also gather partner feedback regularly
through our “SAP Listens” customer and partner feedback
program. An example for our engagement with suppliers is the
introduction of sustainability labels to our indirect procurement
catalogue, enabling our employees to consciously select IT
equipment or office materials. For more information see the
sustainable procurement section
SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY PANEL
Our Sustainability Advisory Panel consists of expert
representatives of customers, investors, partners and NGOs.
Further Information
Our Sustainability Advisory Panel met in 2015 with SAP senior
executives – including Luka Mucic, CFO, COO and board
sponsor for sustainability - from the areas of strategy, solutions,
finance, and administration. The group discussed the further
integration of sustainability into SAP solutions, how we can
support business transformations, and the key issues where our
digitization strategy will play an especially important role in
creating a sustainable future.
We continue our stakeholder engagement as it meets the
variable requirements of the diverse stakeholder groups.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Stakeholder Engagement

7

Recognition
In 2015, we received the following awards and recognition for
our performance and efforts related to sustainability:
– Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (SAP has been ranked as
software sector lead for the ninth consecutive year)
– FTSE4GOOD
– NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability 50 Index
– Newsweek Global 500 Green Ranking
– Top 50 Most Socially Responsible Companies in Canada
– Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and

Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global
– European Datacentre Sustainability Award 2015 (for our
Daracenter in St. Leon Rot)
– Frost & Sullivan Technology Leadership Award (for our
solution TwoGo)
– Land of Ideas Award (for our app SAP Medical Research
Insights)
In addition, we received the following awards for being a globally
recognized employer of choice:
– SAP won the gold award in the category Best Recruitment
Marketing & Employer Branding Program in the Brandon Hall
Group HCM Excellence Awards Program.
– SAP was awarded first place for its Global Mobility Program in
Tech/Media, best Vendor Partnership and 2nd place for Best
Mobility Team of the Year for large mobility programs by the
Forum for Expatriate Management (FEM).
– SAP America became the first technology company in the
United States to be awarded the Economic Dividends for
Gender Equality (EDGE) certificate.
– SAP China has been selected as a winner of the 2015 "Best
Training Company" awards, sponsored by 51job Inc., the
leading integrated human resource service provider in China.
– SAP Australia has been recognized by the Australian
Government as a best employer for women, creating an
environment underpinned by equality.
– SAP MENA received the GCC Best Employer Brand Award by
Employer Branding Institute and Stars of the Industry Group.
– SAP Labs China was ranked among the best companies to
work for in China according to Great Places to Work.
– SAP South Africa won Top Employer in South Africa.
– SAP Labs Latin America was ranked 5th by Great Place to
Work among the greatest IT places to work in Brazil.
– SAP was ranked among the best companies to work for in
Brazil according to Great Places to Work.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Recognition

– SAP ranked in the Top 50 Most Attractive Companies in Latin
America.
– SAP Canada is among the country's Top 100 Employers
offering exceptional workplaces for their employees.
– SAP for the third year in a row earned a perfect score of 100
percent for its support for LGBT employees from the Human
Rights Campaign.
– SAP Mexico was awarded for its HR policies and being a top
employer in Mexico.
– SAP Labs Latin America was nominated the best company to
work for in Brazil, according to Voce S/A magazine.
– SAP Mexico was recognized for its Gente Más program.
– SAP was ranked 9th among big companies of more than 250
employees in Switzerland by the Great Place to Work
Institute.
– SAP France and SAP Labs France were certified as top
employers and recognized as one of the most attractive
companies to work for according to Universum.
– SAP was ranked 5th among the most attractive employers to
work for in Germany based on a student survey conducted by
Universum.
– SAP Labs India was ranked among the best companies to
work for in India according to Great Places to Work.
– SAP was recognized as National Employer of the Year by The
Arc.

8

Sustainability
Management and
Policies
 We recognize that sustainability activities of SAP are a sound business
case.
 We hold ourselves accountable through our policies, goals, and audit
programs.
 To help our customers to run more sustainable businesses, we strive to
become an exemplar ourselves by transforming our own processes and
integrate holistic thinking.
Over the past several years, we made a commitment to move
from having a sustainability strategy at SAP to creating a
corporate strategy that is sustainable. This goal hinges on
integrating sustainability into our core business. To move closer
to this integration, we have adjusted our governance structure
so that some of the dedicated functions of the sustainability
organization now reside within various lines of business. For
example, a team of solution experts is working in close
cooperation with the sustainability team to develop technology
solutions to help our customers manage their sustainability
activities across the value chain. To enable this federated
approach, each board area at SAP has appointed a dedicated
sustainability contact who reports directly to the respective
Global Managing Board member.
One of our primary aims is to demonstrate how sustainability
not only aligns with our business objectives, but also benefits the
top and bottom line of SAP. We also recognize that investors are
one of our core stakeholder groups, as they are increasingly
focused on how we are addressing major challenges facing
business, from climate change to population growth. As a result,
the chief financial officer (CFO), who holds the dual role of chief
operating officer (COO), is ultimately responsible for this area. In
addition, our CFO/COO is the board sponsor for sustainability.

The chief sustainability officer has several major responsibilities
focused on our sustainability performance, our efforts to embed
sustainability into our core business, and our external
relationships and communication. Under their leadership, our
sustainability organization works with leaders across SAP to
monitor our environmental, social, and economic performance.
ENSURING THAT ROLES, RESPONSIBILITY, AND
RESOURCES DRIVE PROGRESS
Our extended sustainability team is part of a matrix
organization. It is composed of the following:
– A dedicated sustainability team working to embed
sustainability into our corporate strategy and responsible for
our internal sustainability performance, contributing to our
integrated reporting, and stimulating new sustainability
initiatives in other parts of the organization
– A team of sustainability experts that design and integrate
sustainability into new or existing industry or line-of-business
solutions
– Development and solution management professionals
creating specific SAP solutions for sustainability
– Global services and support employees

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Sustainability Management and Policies

9

– Dedicated sustainability contacts per board area that focus
on board area-specific opportunities to embed sustainability
into their respective business
– A Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team responsible for
managing our social investments
– Human resources specialists addressing topics particular in
the areas of health, diversity and inclusion, employee
engagement, and leadership development
– Procurement experts who include sustainability criteria in
supplier evaluation
– IT operations professionals, who cover issues such as
working environment and energy consumed by data centers
– Facility management professionals, who design and manage
our facilities based on environmental standards (LEED)
– Local teams in the SAP Labs locations around the world that
oversee a range of sustainability projects
– Sustainability communications employees
– Sustainability marketing professionals
– An investor relations team that informs the investment
community about our holistic company approach
– A network of local sustainability champions who dedicate
10% of their work to drive sustainability in their respective
fields
MANAGING OUR MATERIAL ASPECTS
Responsibilities related to material aspects are managed as
follows:
– Human capital management: Overall, global responsibility
lies with the Managing Board member responsible for human
resources and labor relations. We foster regular dialog
among the sustainability organization and employee
representatives, specifically German works councils and the
European Works Council .
– Intellectual capital management: Included in the solution
and technology portfolio through a central portfolio team.
Customer loyalty is measured by a dedicated team reporting
to the Executive Board member responsible for sales;
account managers are responsible for the relationships with
their customers.
– Security and privacy: Privacy and data protection is
managed by an internal Data Protection and Privacy Office
that operates in Germany complemented by a global network
of local subsidiary data protection officers.
Security
accountabilities are defined for products and corporate
issues; a cybersecurity task force has been established. In
addition, the corporate audit department now has a
dedicated security audit team.
– Financial performance: The Executive Board retains ultimate
responsibility for revenue growth, profitability, and financial
stability of the company.
– Business conduct: These responsibilities lie with our Global
Governance, Risk, and Compliance department, as well as
Legal Compliance and Integrity Office (LCIO). The SAP Global
Delivery and Export Control Policy clearly defines the
management approach and governance ensuring compliance

with import and export regulations relevant for SAP solutions
and technology.
– Climate and energy: The responsibility for this topic lies
within the sustainability team, managed by our chief
sustainability officer. The Global Environmental Policy, which
was updated in July 2015, lists our 8 environmental targets,
including our carbon emissions target, the purchase of 100%
renewable electricity for all facilities and data centers, and
the increase of electric vehicles in our company car fleet. SAP
reports the greenhouse gas emissions caused by corporate
jets under the European Union Emissions Trading System
(EU ETS). In addition, the Renewable Energy Sources Act
(EEG) is applicable to our German locations where we have
installed solar panels.
DEFINING OUR COMMITMENT THROUGH POLICIES
Our commitment to make SAP a more sustainable company and
to manage our impact is defined in our global policies, which can
be found online on our Sustainability at SAP section on the
public Web site SAP.com. Our policies are applicable to all SAP
subsidiaries and are approved by the Executive Board.
SETTING GOALS TO HOLD OURSELVES ACCOUNTABLE
We are committed to improving our sustainability performance
and holding ourselves accountable for our progress. SAP has set
annual, medium-term, and long-term targets for a wide range of
key performance indicators (KPIs), spanning environmental,
social, and financial impacts. An overview of our goals can be
found in the Corporate Goals section.
CERTIFYING OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
In addition to rigorous measurement of KPIs and transparency
in our results, we take additional steps to enhance our
management processes. Formalizing our approach to
environmental improvements, we have established a global
environmental management system according to the ISO 14001
standard.
To date, 33 SAP locations worldwide – in Austria, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary,
Ireland Israel, Italy, South Africa, and the United States – have
received ISO 14001 certification. We will continue to roll out the
program globally. These certifications are published in the
Sustainability at SAP – Environmental Management section on
our public Web site SAP.com.
EVALUATING OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
We regularly review whether our strategy, programs, and
initiatives are effective. For example, the sustainability team has
quarterly review meetings with senior executives. We have also
launched global internal audit programs for labor standards and
human rights as well as for environmental management. While
we view external ratings and rankings as a key reflection of our
performance, the ultimate measure of our success is whether
we achieve the goals we set for ourselves.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Sustainability Management and Policies

10

DRIVING TRANSFORMATIONAL CHANGE IN OUR
BEHAVIOR AND CULTURE
Our efforts to become an exemplar of sustainability mainly focus
on two areas to affect change: our processes and our people.
Achieving our goals requires challenging and transforming old
behaviors and ways of thinking. This journey helps us become
more innovative as we tackle problems in new ways and design
creative solutions. The engagement of our employees is
essential, as their ideas and commitment help drive change
throughout SAP. Our strategy combines organizational changes
to embed sustainability into our business, as well as educational
workshops, campaigns, and other forms of outreach to involve
employees. Four key components of these efforts include:
– A focus on transparency and awareness building
– The need to make the benefits of change relevant and
meaningful for our company and employees through
communication, incentives, recognition, and other means
– The existence of role models within SAP who demonstrate
new behaviors and inspire others
– The management of change by ensuring that the right
processes and tools are in place
Employees learn about sustainability through workshops,
special events, and other activities aimed at deepening the
understanding of our holistic approach to sustainability while
connecting to current global trends such as the ratification of
the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. In addition,
deep-dive sessions are offered on areas such as sustainable
enterprise mobility, procurement, IT, health, and diversity and
inclusion as well as volunteering. We embedded the topic of
sustainability into onboarding training for new hires as well as
manager training. In addition to our overall sustainability
dashboard, every employee can see our environmental
performance through specific dashboards detailing impact,
such as statistics on printing and commuting. In addition, we
also focus our efforts on helping employees understand the
relevance of sustainability – not only to their workplaces but
also to their daily jobs and our core business – through
workshops dedicated to specific organizations and functions
within the company.

LEADING THE CHANGE
Our leaders also have a key role to play in helping us become
more sustainable. For this reason, we continue to embed
sustainability into leadership development programs. This
includes demonstrating how actively managing topics such as
work/life balance and talent development leads to greater
business success in addition to employee engagement and
satisfaction. The sustainability dashboard, created originally for
senior leaders in 2013, helps our employees explore the
connections between non-financial and financial performance
with breakdowns and benchmarks. Employees can see how their
team’s business travel contributes to our overall carbon
footprint, along with financial implications of those results and
how they compare to other teams. Compliant with all data
privacy regulations, data on employee retention and women in
management also helps create transparency on the social
performance of our company. Since our last upgrade to the SAP
product SAP Smart Business cockpit, executive edition,
employees have automatic access to this data.
NETWORK OF SUSTAINABILITY CHAMPIONS
While sustainability requires strong leadership, it cannot be
mandated from the top. Our employees help drive our progress
throughout the company. We enlist a global internal network of
more than 100 sustainability champions who represent different
regions and lines of business at SAP. They dedicate 10% of their
work time to promoting sustainability. Not only do they act as
role models, but they also tailor sustainability to local and lineof-business needs and interests, and share best practices.
Our sustainability champions are a critical part of our
governance strategy, which combines senior and local
leadership with employee engagement to drive change at every
level of SAP – from our daily operations to our overall vision to
help the world run better and improve people’s lives.

In 2015, we facilitated open dialog through coffee-corner
sessions, virtual all-hands meetings, guided inspirational
pavillon tours, and social media. Employees could find out how
sustainability is connected to our vision to help the world run
better and improve people’s lives. They learned of examples
through customer impact stories as well as role model stories by
SAP leaders and employees. We measure the success of our
initiatives through our annual People Survey. In 2015, 90% of
our employees agreed with the statement “It is important for
SAP to pursue sustainability” compared to 91% in 2014 (and
77% in 2009). 80% of our employees stated “I actively
contribute to SAP’s sustainability goals,” up from 74% in 2014
(and 46% in 2009).

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Sustainability Management and Policies

11

Business Conduct,
Ethics, and Integrity
 Our established compliance management system includes detailed
policies and procedures for ensuring ethical business conduct.
 Communication and training safeguard a common understanding of what
we mean by compliance.
 Our Legal Compliance and Integrity Office enforces compliance to our
policies and codes of conduct.
We act to ensure that we live up to high ethical standards
throughout SAP. Our policies govern the conduct of our
management, employees, suppliers and partners, as well as
critical areas of our business such as sales, vendor selection,
and payroll. In addition, we train employees on the SAP Code of
Business Conduct for Employees, which includes guidelines on
bribery, antitrust, and a host of other topics. In the case of any
breaches of compliance, we take appropriate remedial action.
ESTABLISHING CLEAR AND COMPREHENSIVE
STANDARDS
Our compliance management system includes detailed policies
and procedures for ensuring ethical business conduct. Audited
by KPMG in 2012/2013, this system consists of the following
components:
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Fostering a favorable compliance culture
Defining objectives
Determining and analyzing compliance risks
Running a compliance program
Creating a responsible compliance organization
Communicating standards clearly
Monitoring and improving the management system

FOSTERING A COMPLIANT CULTURE THROUGH THE SAP
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES
One of our priorities has been to establish a common
understanding of what we mean by compliance. The SAP Code
of Business Conduct for Employees (“Code”) summarizes our
standards, and all employees (including top executives) must
recognize this Code when they join SAP. While providing a global

framework, the Code is adapted locally and translated into local
languages. Such adaptation cannot weaken any requirements of
the global Code and, in some cases, may be even stricter. In
many countries, employees must also renew their commitment
on an annual basis. This is not a formality for us but a means to
share one of the most important foundations of our company
culture.
Our Code contains guidelines for all SAP employees and
members of the Executive Board as they perform their daily
work on behalf of SAP. It is binding for all employees throughout
the world and sets the standard for our dealings with customers,
partners, competitors, and vendors. Our Code is also a
statement of our commitment to safeguarding our investors and
customers against unfair competitive practices, corruption, and
misleading statements. Our Executive Board approves our
Code.
Specifically, our Code covers the following:
– Prohibition of bribery and corruption in all its forms, including
facilitation or “grease payments”
– Gifts and business entertainment limits
– Full, fair, and accurate accounting
– Conflicts of interest
– Confidentiality
– Anti-competitive practices

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Business Conduct, Ethics, and Integrity

12

DELIVERING EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION
ON BUSINESS CONDUCT
Every other year, all employees in customer-facing roles are
required to participate in e-learning training on anti-corruption,
competition law, and customer commitments. In 2015 additional
employee groups were included in this training, such as
employees in supporting roles including Corporate Affairs and
Global Marketing. 1,103 employees in Global Marketing and 145
employees in Corporate Affairs were trained with an online
module. These online training modules are available in nine
languages. In addition, 20,213 employees in SAP’s P&I group
completed an online training on governance for customer
commitments. We also continued education on intellectual
property (IP), covering how we protect SAP’s IP rights and the
rights of third parties 2,401 employees completed our IP online
training. All online modules include a knowledge test. The Legal
Compliance and Integrity Office also held 106 classroom training
sessions with 2,633 participants. In our annual Code of Business
Conduct Certification 54,507 employees were invited to
participate in the certification of the SAP Code of Business
Conduct for Employees and 52,588 completed the certification.
We established a collaboration with the HR onboarding teams so
that general compliance information on relevant policies is
included in the onboarding sessions run by HR for new hires.
6,302 new hires joined these sessions in 2015.
In 2015 we launched a compliance communication campaign
where we inform all employees in quarterly newsletters on
compliance focus topics. We provide general information on the
topic, current cases that are in the press and a section for selfreflection where employees are confronted with a hypothetical
compliance case. Links to compliance related information are
also included, such as our Whistleblower anonymous reporting
system, the Legal Compliance and Integrity Office, Corporate
Audit, and SAP global policies. We also run polls in the Portal on
compliance related questions periodically throughout the year.
In addition, this year, based on a new question in the people
survey, 73 % of our employees feel encouraged to report on
circumstances that could result in criminal fines for individuals
or SAP. In 2016 we will benchmark our results against the
results of other companies who asked the same question.
– In addition to our training, we take a number of other steps to
ensure that employees are aware of our policies and
anticorruption standards:
– The Legal Compliance and Integrity Office conducts
awareness calls and meetings
– Local managers send e-mails to their subsidiaries
– Local Codes of Business Conduct are available in local
languages where necessary.
– All global policies and guidelines and additional information
are available on SAP Corporate Portal
As part of the new SAP Global Security Policy, a mandatory
training covering Information Security Fundamentals was rolled
out to all employees in November 2015.

SETTING EXPECTATIONS FOR OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
We have created other policies related to specific lines of
business and business activities. These guidelines include:
– Regulation of the appointment and remuneration of sales
agents: All agents, consultants, or other third parties
assisting with a sales opportunity must enter a written
contract with mandatory provisions related to corruption and
other issues. Before any contract with a third-party sales
agent is executed, an integrity check must be completed
along with internal approval processes.
– SAP Partner Code of Conduct: Governs our expectations of
ethical business conduct by our partners. Before working
with SAP, all new partners must accept this code.
– SAP Supplier Code of Conduct:
Governs SAP’s
expectations of our vendors and suppliers.
– Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: Lays out rules for
donations made under SAP’s corporate social responsibility
(CSR) program to ensure that charitable donations are not
used for improper purposes such as bribery. The CSR team
vets all donations made under this program and conducts a
validation process to ensure that the recipient charity is
legitimate. For donations that are not supported by the CSR
team, a Legal Compliance and Integrity Office-DoA, including
Compliance approval, is in place.
– Global IP Policy: Provides a set of behavioral rules for SAP
employees worldwide to comply with regulatory and legal
requirements in the area of intellectual property law.
– Group accounting and revenue recognition guidelines:
Detailed description of all IFRS accounting matters across
entire SAP group.
– Segregation of duty: Applies to all IT processes
Additional policies or commitments related to sustainability are
under the responsibility of the respective line of Business and
can be found at Our Sustainability Commitments.
CONDUCTING COMPLIANCE RISK ANALYSIS
We review our business units and business activities for
potential bribery or corruption on an ongoing basis. For
example, we collect quantitative data annually about each
subsidiary with employees and revenues in 96 SAP entities in 67
countries. This data includes revenue, number of employees,
percentage of public sector business, number of fraud
allegations or incidents, changes or updates to relevant laws,
and other quantitative information. Based on that we determine
a risk ranking of countries. To monitor our processes, the Legal
Compliance and Integrity Office works closely with our Global
Governance, Risk and Compliance Organization, to identify
areas where a risk assessment is needed; we then drive
remediation programs if necessary. In 2015 the outcome of
stakeholder interviews run by the Global Governance Risk and
Compliance organization was integrated into a scenario based
risk assessment that will be launched beginning of 2016 in all
SAP countries.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Business Conduct, Ethics, and Integrity

13

Generally, we find that our primary risks related to compliance
concern corruption, antitrust, export controls, and IP (For more
information, see our Risk Report). Our assessment also helps us
create a general risk profile for subsidiary locations. Through
analysis of our quantitative data, we determine which countries
require our highest attention. Globally we ensure compliance to
export controls, embargo and sanctions list with a formalized
approval process for sales of all software solutions, which is
regularly audited by external parties as well as internal audits.
ENFORCING POLICIES THROUGH OUR LEGAL
COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY OFFICE
The Legal Compliance and Integrity Office oversees the SAP
Code of Business Conduct for Employees (“Code”), as well as all
other related policies and our anticorruption program. Since
January 1, 2015, the Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to
the SAP Group CFO. The direct reporting line to the CFO
recognizes the increased enforcement activity in the high-tech
sector in recent years, plus the constantly changing ways in
which fraud and corruption schemes surface in the business
world. Our compliance approach must also constantly change
and adapt to incorporate new best practices to stay relevant in
our company’s business. The Office of Legal Compliance and
Integrity consists of global compliance officers based at our
headquarters and in our most important markets (especially
where local language needs must be met). In addition, local
subsidiaries have local compliance officers who assess issues
and escalate them to the global level if necessary.

MAINTAINING PROCESSES FOR INCIDENT REPORTING
AND REMEDIATION
Employees have a number of avenues to raise concerns to the
Legal Compliance and Integrity Office when they believe there
has been a breach of the SAP Code of Business Conduct for
Employees or when they seek advice:
– Helpline (For more information, see the Governance –
Policies and Statutes section of our public Web site SAP.com)
– Legal Compliance and Integrity Office mailbox
– Contact with local and global compliance officers via e-mail or
telephone
– Whistleblower tool used primarily for financial reporting and
auditing issues to ensure that anonymous reporting is
possible
These channels are communicated to all employees on SAP
Corporate Portal, and new hires are informed of them during the
new hire process. Our helpline is published on SAP.com for
external stakeholders. In addition, reporting channels are
described in the SAP Partner Code of Conduct and the SAP
Supplier Code of Conduct. Most of these mechanisms are
available 24 hours per day and 7 days a week, and concerns are
treated as confidentially as possible in light of subsequent
investigation (concerns can also be raised anonymously through
the whistleblower tool). However if they are raised, all concerns
are investigated, and remedial action is taken if necessary.
Such remedial actions in incidents of corruption may include:

In addition to making regular reports to the CFO and Executive
Board, the Chief Global Compliance Officer provides, at least
annually, reports to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board. Matters of significance are brought to the attention of the
Executive Board and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board on an as-needed basis. Reporting to these boards allows
for regular monitoring and continuous improvement to our anticorruption program. Our compliance program was audited and
certified according to IBWPS 980 by KPMG in 2012 with regular
internal audit follow-up in 2015.
We further promote compliance through the following practices:
– No employee will suffer demotion, penalty, or other adverse
consequences for refusing to pay bribes, even if such refusal
may result in the enterprise losing business.
– Employees at all levels of the organization are required to
disclose conflicts of interest to the Legal Compliance and
Integrity Office. In 2015 we piloted respective employee selfservice scenarios in Germany and North Americas. Other
countries to follow.
– The Legal Compliance and Integrity Office also invites
employees to identify any potential conflicts during the
annual process of renewing their commitment to our code.
Disclosures are then followed up with guidance or mitigation
if necessary.

– Written warning (for example, when a policy was violated but
it is not clear that actual corruption occurred)
– Termination
A former Vice President of Sales who was employed by SAP
International, Inc., pled guilty and was sentenced to prison for
participating in a scheme to violate the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA). SAP terminated his employment in April
2014 after learning of his misconduct. The U.S. Department of
Justice (DOJ) declined to pursue criminal charges against
SAP. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
instituted
administrative
cease-and-desist
proceedings
regarding a books and records and internal control violation of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. To settle this matter, SAP
has agreed to forfeit the $3.7 million in profits, plus interest
thereon, generated in connection with the inappropriate
transactions. SAP’s settlement with the SEC does not involve
any financial penalty or substantive bribery charge against the
company.
JOINING COLLECTIVE ACTION TO COMBAT CORRUPTION
SAP is a member of the German chapter of Transparency
International, a non-profit, non-partisan organization that
combats corruption in government and international business
and development. In addition, we are active in the Alliance for
Integrity (AfIn). AfIn is a business-driven multi-stakeholder

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Business Conduct, Ethics, and Integrity

14

initiative promoting integrity in the economic system and
conditions for compliant and clean business. It was initiated by a
number of multinational companies, business associations, the
German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and
Development (BMZ), the Society for International Cooperation
(GIZ), the German Global Compact Network and sequa, a nonprofit development organization. The focus of the initiative is on
implementing collective action on the ground.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Business Conduct, Ethics, and Integrity

15

Public Policy
 SAP advises governments on how to drive innovation and address societal
challenges through the effective use of digital technologies.
 SAP maintains government relations offices around the world.
 We are a member of several trade associations across the globe.
SAP has developed trusting relationships with governments
worldwide by exploring the potential for information and
communications technology (ICT) to spur economic growth,
create jobs, and address societal challenges.
In Europe, SAP maintains government relations offices in
Belgium, France, Germany, Russia, and the United Kingdom,
with Belgium hosting our European Union (EU) Representation
Office. In the Americas, SAP has established a government
relations presence in Washington, D.C., in the United States, and
São Paulo, Brazil. Additional offices are located in China, India,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates.
SAP engages with governments around the globe on a number
of public policy issues, including the creation of reasonable
framework conditions for new technologies or business models
such as cloud computing and Big Data. For example, we
participate in the European Cloud Partnership, which has a
primary goal of promoting the adoption of cloud computing and
the creation of a single market for cloud services in Europe.
SAP is also developing best practices to ensure cybersecurity
and the protection of personal data in the digital economy. SAP
favors global policy frameworks and international standards that
enable global trade of digital products and services and the free
flow of data across borders.
We advise governments on how to drive innovation and address
societal challenges through the effective use of digital
technologies. For example, SAP serves on the High Level Group
of the European Innovation Partnership for Smart Cities and
Communities to foster sustainable development. Together with
the German Chancellor and the Federal Minister of Economics,
SAP actively engages in Germany’s National IT Summit, which
has an overall objective to promote and implement the digital
agenda in Germany.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Public Policy

We also cooperate with governments to promote the
development of ICT skills and entrepreneurship, as well as to
empower small and midsize enterprises as key enablers of
economic growth and job creation. SAP addresses the skills gap
globally through initiatives such as our SAP University Alliances
and SAP Skills for Africa programs, Africa Code Week, EU Code
Week, the EU Grand Coalition for Digital Jobs, and the Business
Backs Education global advocacy campaign. Together with the
Bipartisan Congressional Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCU) Caucus, and before members of the U.S.
Congress, SAP executives presented Project Propel, an elite
SAP initiative to build next-generation talent for the digital
enterprise.
We secure and support high profile thought leadership
opportunities to appear before governments and demonstrate
our expertise in advancing a new wave of innovation enabled by
business analytics, in-memory computing, cloud computing,
and enterprise mobility.
MEMBERSHIPS IN TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
SAP is a member of several trade associations across the globe,
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; National Association
of Manufacturers; Organization for International Investment;
TechAmerica; Information Technology Industries Council;
Association of Climate Change Officers; BITKOM; Federation of
German Industries; VDMA; Plattform Industrie 4.0; Deutschland
sicher im Netz e.V.; Transatlantic Business Council;
DIGITALEUROPE; European Roundtable of Industrialists;
Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs; and the
Russian-German Chamber of Commerce.
SAP believes in transparency in the political process.
Accordingly, we are registered in the European Transparency
Register for interest representatives. In the United States, our
company is registered and reports in compliance with the
Lobbying Disclosure Act.

16

POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
In principle, SAP does not support any political parties. Under
the laws of the United States, a number of SAP employees
continue to exercise their right to create a political action
committee (PAC). The SAP America PAC is an independent,
registered, and strictly regulated organization that allows eligible
employees in the United States to support political candidates at
the state and federal level. Consistent with U.S. law, SAP SE
exercises no control over or influence in the SAP America PAC.
SAP America PAC expenditures are transparent and available on
the website for the U.S. Federal Election Commission.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Public Policy

17

Memberships
To better understand and enable sustainable performance on a
global level, both for our company and customers, SAP
subscribes to and routinely engages in a range of third-party
organizations, including:
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Alliance for Integrity (AFIn)
Association for Talent Development
Association of Climate Change Officers
ASUG
Bitkom e.V.
BME e.V.
Business for Social Responsibility
Corporate Executive Board Company
CEO Council
Dublin Chamber of Commerce
CTIA
ECCMA
European Centre for Women and Technology
Executive Corporate Learning Forum (ECLF)
econsense
Financial Women’s Association
Greenhouse Gas Management Institute
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA)
Schmalenbach Gesellschaft für Betriebswirtschaft e.V.
Sustainability Consortium
The Business Council
The Conference Board, Inc.
Transparency International Germany
United Nations Global Compact (since 2000)
WRI / WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol
World Economic Forum

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Memberships

18

Security, Privacy, and
Data Protection
 Security, Privacy and Data protection are one of SAP material aspects.
 We address security holistically throughout the software development
process and solution provisioning of our cloud solutions.
 Our global data protection and privacy policy secures data privacy in a
world of increased access to personal data.
While enabling our customers to Run Simple by tackling
complexity, they expect SAP to address threats to their onpremise software environments, as well as to their cloud and
mobile services. We view our customers’ trust in our company
as a key element of our success. This trust extends to the high
quality and security of our entire suite of products and services,
as well as our ability to operate our cloud business both securely
and reliably. For this reason, we continually strive to protect
customers, business partners, and our own company through a
range of coordinated practices.
COMPREHENSIVE SECURITY PRACTICES
Security has always been a very important topic for SAP and our
customers. That is why we introduced a secure software
development lifecycle to address security holistically throughout
the development process.
Our strategy includes:
– A comprehensive global security expert team leading and
guiding our development units to build at a high security level
from the start of the product planning phase
– Security functionality built into our products
– Mandatory security training for developers
– Solid testing and validation of our products, patches, and
services before shipment
– A software security response process to react rapidly to
reported vulnerabilities
– Security-related service offerings from our service and
support organization
– A specialized security consulting team
– A large ecosystem of partners that specialize in security

– A dedicated research organization focused on security
– Corporate security at SAP locations to oversee the security of
our data centers and development organization
SECURE CLOUD COMPUTING
With cloud offerings, our core business applications are now
available to everyone, from the largest enterprises to the
smallest businesses. Security and data protection principles as
well as related requirements are especially critical in the cloud,
and we view trust in our security and data protection practices
as an important differentiator for the cloud business. Our cloud
operations meet international standards for availability, security,
and data protection that are among the highest in our industry .
Currently, SAP is adding new data centers and consolidating
existing data centers to efficiently meet customer demands in
the cloud business and meet preferences for local and regional
options. Our data center strategy is built on using our own data
center locations as well as using co-location providers – both
applying similar security and data protection requirements.
Throughout all of our data center locations and our worldwide
operations, we comply with the European Data Protection
Regulation, which provides a very high level of protection, and
adapt it to local needs, if necessary.
At the same time, all SAP data centers are required to comply
with the same standards for physical, technical, and operational
security measures, which are among the highest in the industry.
We also have measures to ensure that access to information is
limited to a need-to-know basis and meeting a required set of
privileges, and that all information is classified to reflect its level
of confidentiality and is encrypted as appropriately as possible.
We conduct full and incremental data backups on a daily,

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Security, Privacy, and Data Protection

19

weekly, and monthly basis. As a result, cloud solutions from SAP
meet high standards and have been certified in many areas,
including data center operations, software operations, business
continuity, and internal inspection. Certifications include SOC1
Type II, SOC2 Type II, ISO 27001, ISO 22301, and BS 10012,
among others.
MOBILE SECURITY
To help our customers meet the diverse challenges of enterprise
mobility head on, SAP Mobile Secure solutions provide robust
mobile device management, mobile application management,
and mobile content management. Through these advanced
solutions, data, mobile apps, and content can be locked down to
meet the strictest security requirements and ensure good
protection if a mobile device is lost or stolen. These solutions
manage and secure deployments of mobile devices for
companies of any size, improving the mobile user experience
while eliminating security bottlenecks.

because of services and products that SAP provides with the
help of our U.S.-based entities and/or U.S.-based suppliers
could lead to fines, civil liability, loss of customers, damage to
our reputation, and could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial position, profit, and cash flows.
Furthermore, SAP already offers an option for our customers by
which customers can elect to have their personal data
processed in and accessed from within the European
Union/European Economic Area (EU/EEA) and Switzerland
exclusively. The EU Access service from SAP is available for onpremise systems and a growing number of cloud solutions.
In 2015, SAP did not experience any significant incidents
regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer
data, or incidents which would have required reporting subject
to the provisions of the German Federal Data Protection Act.

STRICT DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY POLICIES
We recognize the growing importance of privacy in a world of
increased access to personal data. We adhere to our SAP Data
Protection and Privacy Policy that is not only designed to secure
the privacy rights of employees, customers, prospects, and
partners, but also of anyone whose data is processed by SAP
and falls within the legal parameters of SAP or our customers.
Privacy is a top priority of our Executive Board and our legal
entities must abide by internal policies and applicable privacy
laws.
With regards to data protection requirements, significant
changes are expected subject to the upcoming European Data
Protection Regulation. Furthermore, SAP is affected by the
consequences of the decision of the European Court of Justice
(ECJ), which declared Safe Harbor invalid, so that data transfers
from within the European Union (EU) to the United States are no
longer permitted based on Safe Harbor.
Further, recent landmark decisions by the ECJ on data
protection matters, as well as official statements made by the
European data protection supervisory authorities require SAP to
carefully review our globalized business practices. Most
importantly, the ECJ on October 6 ruled that data transfers by
European companies to data processors in the United States
can no longer be based on Safe Harbor. While SAP has not
widely relied upon Safe Harbor, the data protection supervisory
authorities have challenged the legality of other transfer
mechanisms, such as the Standard Contractual Clauses used by
SAP on the same grounds by which the ECJ has declared Safe
Harbor invalid. The data protection supervisory authorities have
threatened to start enforcement activities as early as end of
January 2016 against European companies that still transfer
data to the United States (or grant U.S. companies remote
access to systems containing personal data in the EU) based on
a transfer mechanism that the authorities consider invalid.
Enforcement activities against SAP or against SAP customers

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Security, Privacy, and Data Protection

20

Sustainable
Procurement
 SAP's on premise and cloud procurement solutions support our company
in achieving our sustainability goals.
 Our Global Procurement Organization fosters and encourages
sustainability throughout the entire supply chain.
 SAP solutions help make our customers and suppliers more sustainable
businesses.
SOURCING FROM SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS TO FURTHER
IMPROVE OUR PERFORMANCE
SAP not only promotes sustainability within the company, but
also goes further to work with suppliers in procuring the most
sustainable products possible. Throughout, we seek to buy
products and services only from suppliers that meet high
environmental and social standards. Furthermore, SAP started
to partner with the ‘Made in a Free World’ initiative in order to
identify and eliminate potential child and forced labor in our
supply chain. Such procurement practices help us create a
positive impact and provide levers through which we can reduce
our emissions. In addition, working with suppliers that
demonstrate a commitment to sustainability enables us to
comply with the requirements of our own customers and to lead
by example as well.
SAP works with a supply chain that supports the development of
our software, global operations, and employee base. Our
purchases consist primarily of consulting and development
services, travel, and marketing, as well as tangible goods related
to IT equipment, car fleet, and facilities.
DESIGNING AND UPDATING POLICIES TO MEET THE
HIGHEST ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL STANDARDS
To drive progress throughout our supply chain, SAP has made
sustainability an integral part of our Global Procurement Policy,
to which all procurement employees must adhere. Our goal is
making sustainable procurement a seamless part of our Global
Procurement Organization, thereby supporting SAP’s overall
sustainability goals. This integration involves a continual

evaluation of trade-offs among economic, environmental, and
social aspects of our sourcing decisions.
SAP makes social and environmental criteria mandatory in the
selection process for new suppliers. To help realize these
sourcing practices, a section on sustainability has been added to
our global master contracts, asserting the right to receive
information from our suppliers in advance on labor rights,
health, safety, environmental protection, and other key
sustainability issues to protect and comply with our daily
business with regards to sustainability.
In addition, our suppliers are required to accept the SAP
Supplier Code of Conduct. This code is designed to be based on
international standards that are relevant to our industry,
including but not limited to, the Electronic Industry Citizenship
Coalition (EICC) and the United Nations Global Compact. It
contains provisions regarding human and labor rights,
corruption and bribery, waste, water, air, and materials.
For applicable goods and services, SAP sources suppliers that
provide such goods and services on a local basis, for example,
for the food available in our cafeterias. In our SAP Innovation
Center in Potsdam, for example, we offer regional and local
products. By using predominantly local products in our catering,
we demonstrate that we support regional agriculture and thus
have a positive impact on the environment.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Sustainable Procurement

21

ASSESSING THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS
PERFORMANCE OF SUPPLIERS
As part of our supplier management program, within a pilot
program running for the USA we ask all new SAP suppliers, just
as all our direct suppliers worldwide with an annual spend above
€ 10k (reached in the reference year 2014) to answer
sustainability related questions, which cover their sustainability
strategy, dedicated company targets to drive environmental and
social improvements, ISO 14001 certification and ensuring of
human rights and labor standards. The answers help us to
identify risks in our supply chain, as well as areas where we can
work with our suppliers to improve performance. We also
document the diversity of our suppliers in the United States
quarterly.
Our screening has helped to confirm there are no major risks or
significant negative impact related to social or environmental
performance. As a result, the intervals to conduct additional indepth impact assessments can be extended. When we identify
risks, we assert the right to conduct on-site audits.
Since 2012, we assess the greenhouse gas emissions of our
supply chain, and continuously improve our respective
methodology to identify and implement opportunities to reduce
our collective footprint. For more information on these efforts,
see the Energy and Emissions section.
INCREASING EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES TO SELECT
PREFERRED SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS
We remain conscious about what we purchase to run our
business, and make it easy for our employees to do the same.
Employees can easily identify and buy sustainable IT and office
supplies from our SAP Ariba catalog. We have flagged these
products with a “green leaf” to help employees make the right
decision when buying products needed for everyday business.
The green leaf represents products that are classified according
to sustainability guidelines and certifications. For IT equipment,
we use the externally accepted TCO Development label that
considers not only environmental criteria but also takes into
account under which conditions the hardware was produced. In
Germany, we have also set up a completely green office supply
catalog.

– Enterprise mobility: SAP offers the option of a full year rail
travel ticket in Germany, as an alternative to our company car
option.
– Electric vehicles: See chapter Energy and Emissions.
– Bicycles: SAP has begun offering leased bicycles to
employees in Germany. SAP has now leased 1,094 bicycles at
the end of 2015.
– Food catering: We defined key performance indicators
(KPIs) for food service suppliers at our locations to measure
their environment, health, or safety performance, and are
exploring and pursuing more sustainable alternatives. At our
offices in Germany, for example, our entire coffee and cocoa
supply is organic and fair trade. Rollout is planned for
selected locations worldwide. Using water dispensers instead
of plastic bottles is already standard in most of the locations
and should be implemented in all the remaining ones in 2016.
– Renewable energy: See chapter Energy and Emissions.
– Recycling paper: We now use 100% recycled paper in
Germany and in the whole EMEA region. Furthermore, we
plan to finalize the rollout globally in 2016, at the latest.
– Paperless invoicing: We are achieving a reduction of
150,000 paper invoices annually by utilizing e-invoicing
available in cloud solutions from SAP Ariba. Also the travel
expense reimbursement process proceeds fully paperless
with receipts being scanned by the end users for the
countries where original receipts are not needed for
archiving.
– Sustainable events: In 2015, some events such as CeBIT in
Germany were powered by 100% renewable electricity. In
2016, our SAP Development Kick-Off Meeting (SAP d-kom)
will be run as a sustainable event. Together with an event
agency, we will create a state-of-the-art approach and define
KPIs to measure the initiative.
– Green office materials: SAP now offers alternative
environmental friendlier office materials products in their
catalogs. These products are marked with a green leaf; on
average one third of our office materials purchased in
Germany in 2015 is considered green.

We provide various information on CO2 emissions for business
flights during the booking process with our Concur solution.
Through this transparency, our employees can reconsider the
CO2 emissions of business flights in their decision making
process.
CO-INNOVATING TO BENEFIT OUR SUPPLIERS AND SAP
Since the beginning of the sustainability team in 2009, our
procurement organization has worked closely with key suppliers
and internal SAP organizations such as solutions and
development to encourage sustainable practices in their
respective businesses. We have continued to work directly with
suppliers in key areas to ensure measurable improvement:

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Sustainable Procurement

22

Human Rights and
Labor Standards
 SAP respects, supports, and upholds global standards regarding human
rights.
 The SAP Global Human Rights Commitment Statement focuses on three
main areas: our employees, our ecosystem of partners and suppliers, and
our solutions.
 We enforce our standards through targeted training, an auditing process,
and grievance procedures.
UPHOLDING STANDARDS FOR OUR EMPLOYEES, OUR
ECOSYSTEM, AND OUR SOLUTIONS
As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since
2000, we believe that business has a responsibility to respect
human rights throughout all business operations. Upholding
high standards protects our reputation, supports diversity, helps
to attract and keep top talent, and fosters our innovation as our
employees work in fair, ethical conditions.
We respect and support the values of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises and the International Labor Organization (ILO)
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by
integrating human rights considerations into our standard
business practices. In working to ensure that our commitment
to human rights translates into practice, we take guidance from
the United Nations “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” framework.
We adopted a SAP Global Human Rights Commitment
Statement that details our respect, support, and activities based
on the international standards mentioned above. This
commitment statement is based on, and is an extension of, the
SAP Code of Business Conduct and has been approved by our
Executive Board. It is applicable to all our operations and
subsidiaries globally and will be reviewed on a regular base. We
are committed to regularly updating the commitment statement
and implemented some changes in 2015. As a result, the
statement now includes stronger guidance for employee
behavior and accountability for each topic, as well as clear

references to our other guidelines (SAP Global Health and
Safety Management Policy; SAP Data Protection and Privacy
Policy, among others).
We based this commitment statement on a global impact
assessment that entailed interviewing stakeholders to assess
the issues of greatest importance to SAP. For example, we
found that child labor, freedom of association, and forced labor
are less material issues for us as a business software provider.
We do not manufacture products using vendor factories and
contracted labor, and our employees are highly specialized and
skilled, with an expectation of a competitive salary and benefits.
Nevertheless, we are enforcing human rights and labor
standards with our supply chain partners through our SAP
Global Human Rights Commitment Statement and SAP Supplier
Code of Conduct. We also believe that our employees are in a
strong position to voice their opinions, making freedom of
association a less relevant issue. For example, in our People
Survey conducted in 2015, 76% of employees characterize the
climate within SAP as one of trust. At the same time, however,
we have identified complex, constantly evolving human rights
risks and opportunities that the software industry as a whole
faces, from accessibility to security and privacy.
To that end, our commitment statement focuses on three main
areas where SAP has the greatest impact: our employees, our
ecosystem of partners and suppliers, and our solutions.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Human Rights and Labor Standards

23

ENFORCING OUR STANDARDS THROUGH AN AUDIT
PROCESS AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Our sustainability organization is responsible and accountable
for orchestrating our approach to respecting human rights and
integrating human rights considerations into our business. The
team works with colleagues from human resources (HR),
procurement, and product development to create a
comprehensive approach. To assess whether our human rights
measures are sufficient, we consider external benchmarks,
performance ratings, audit results, and stakeholder feedback. In
addition, in 2012, we launched a global internal audit program to
verify that our subsidiaries adhere to our standards. Since then,
we conduct regular audits to check internal compliance with this
policy. In 2015, we conducted a labor audit in our locations SAP
China Labs and AGS operations in Shanghai and Beijing. There
were no material findings within the audit. However, areas for
improvement were identified and include establishing an
employee council, enhancing air quality inside the buildings, and
increasing awareness of team-building events.
RESPECTING THE RIGHTS OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND
PROVIDING THEM WITH A VOICE
Our most material human rights and labor standards relate to
our employees, and we maintain detailed policies in this area.
For example, we have a long-standing policy of nondiscrimination in all aspects of our dealings with employees. We
are also committed to providing a work environment free from
unlawful harassment. Employees who feel they are being
subjected to conduct that violates this policy are encouraged to
report the conduct to their managers, HR officers, or a
compliance office. In the United States, reports regarding
harassment and discrimination must be escalated to the Legal
Compliance and Integrity Office (LCIO). Prompt, thorough, and
objective investigations are conducted upon receiving
complaints, and if it is determined that prohibited
discrimination, harassment, or other conduct has occurred, we
take appropriate remedial action.
Our global ombudsperson also plays a crucial role in
representing the voice of employees. An independent and
neutral authority, the ombudsperson is the main contact person
for our global employee base to address issues and settle
disputes. This work includes the investigation of employee
complaints and the mediation of fair settlements. All employees
can reach out to the ombudsperson on a confidential basis. The
ombudsperson also helps the Executive Board analyze HRrelated complaints and consider ways to address potential
issues before they occur.
Employees have access to other channels to raise concerns
about the workplace, including colleagues who are trained to be
part of our internal mediation pool. Our LCIO oversees our
antibribery and antitrust policies, along with other issues related
to our business conduct. In addition to such grievance
procedures, we work to uphold high standards by providing
training to our employees on human rights issues that are most

relevant to our business – namely, security, privacy, and
antidiscrimination.
COLLABORATING WITH OUR WORKS COUNCILS TO
ENSURE FAIR LABOR PRACTICES
As published in the SAP Human Rights Commitment Statement,
we strive for constructive labor relations across the world,
working within each country’s requirements.
For example, since 2006, our employees in Germany are
represented by works councils. The councils consist of elected
union members and non-union members. The councils have the
right to be consulted by SAP management on topics that define
the work environment and work processes. These include HR
initiatives, talent development, payment and benefits, equal
opportunities, changes in work or IT processes, privacy
protection, and health and safety protection.
Other works councils exist in Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, the
Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain, and the United Kingdom. In
addition, since 2012, we have a European Works Council (now
SAP SE Works Council Europe) representing employees from all
SAP subsidiaries in Europe. This body must be informed or, in
special cases, consulted, on important transnational issues.
Collective bargaining agreements with unions are only made in
countries where legally required. Overall, about 50% of
employees are represented by works councils, an independent
trade union, or are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
SAP management is committed to collaborate and
communicate with councils’ representatives on corporate
management decisions. While we do not have a global minimum
notice period in place for making operational changes, we do
provide timely information and consult with employee
representatives whenever and wherever required.
ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS IN
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOLUTIONS
We expect all our business partners to respect human rights and
to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. Our SAP Supplier
Code of Conduct and our SAP Partner Code of Conduct require
suppliers and partners, respectively, to uphold human and labor
rights and to provide a safe and healthy work environment to
employees. In addition, we work collaboratively with our
suppliers on the implementation of these codes, which may
include on-site audits to assess performance.
As a business software company, we are committed to
respecting and protecting human rights throughout the lifecycle
of our products and services from design through development
to use. We uphold internal standards for the protection of
personal information and privacy rights as defined in the SAP
Global Product Development Policy, the SAP Quality Policy, and
related SAP Product Standards as well as in the SAP Data
Protection and Privacy Policy. In addition, to support inclusion

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Human Rights and Labor Standards

24

efforts worldwide, we follow the recommendations of the
current versions of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
and Section 508 of the United States Access Board when
designing our products and services.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Human Rights and Labor Standards

25

Waste and Water
 SAP continues to reduce our global e-waste.
 We invest in technology for the composting and recycling of organic and
other waste.
 We increase efficiency by using gray water and by installing waterless
restroom fixtures.
CREATING A GLOBAL APPROACH TO RECYCLING
E-WASTE
Taking steps to recycle our waste and save water contributes to
both our environmental and business performance, as we keep
waste out of landfills, reduce our operational costs, and engage
our employees in our efforts.
While we seek to reduce all types of waste – from the food in our
cafeteria to the paper in our printers – our single largest source
of waste comes from the IT equipment, PCs, peripherals, and
range of mobile devices that we use to develop our software. A
sustainable procurement program complements our waste
reduction efforts by offering sustainably produced IT
equipment. Despite the significant growth of the company, we
were able to reduce the ratio of laptops or PCs per user to a ratio
of 1.09 (approximately 90,000 devices in use) in 2015
compared to a ratio of 1.18 in 2011. To ensure quality, our
software must be tested on multiple devices and on different
platforms leading to laptop or PC user ratio greater than 1.
In 2015, we continued our engagement with one of the world’s
most sustainable companies as our e-waste disposal partner.
This partner adheres to ISO 14001 standards and ensures that
we have one uniform disposal process for e-waste. In addition,
we support the reuse of “gently used” IT equipment internally if
applicable through used equipment shops in some countries (in
Germany and the United States). All other used equipment is
resold or recycled in an environmentally friendly manner
depending on the condition of the equipment (recycling quota
for Germany: 99%).
COMPOSTING AND RECYCLING OUR ORGANIC AND
OTHER WASTE IN LOCATIONS WORLDWIDE
In addition to e-waste, we estimate that we generated
approximately 18 kilotons of waste in our offices, cafeterias, and
product packaging worldwide in 2015 (2014: 12 kilotons).

To reduce this waste, we run comprehensive recycling programs
for our offices and cafeterias. For example, we process leftover
food in our Walldorf headquarters in an external composting
plant. The SAP Labs location in Bangalore, India, has installed an
“organic waste converter” to recycle organic waste from its
larger food services and cafeteria operations into odor-free,
homogenized compost. At SAP offices in Palo Alto, an externally
certified zero waste management system led to a landfill
diversion rate of nearly 100% of the entire waste produced and
significant savings over the past three years. At SAP offices in
Dublin, California, applying the same leading practice resulted in
95% waste diversion near the end of 2015. The SAP office in
Vancouver is now approaching 81% waste to landfill diversion
using the same leading practices. SAP America headquarters in
Newtown Square, Pennsylvania, is currently in the zero waste
program development. As our zero waste practice proved
successful, we continue to roll it out and transfer these
experiences to all our other sites across the globe as part of our
ISO 14001 program across SAP, starting in North America.
Beyond recycling, we try to use more sustainable materials in
our business. For example, while we seek to encourage
electronic download of our software, we package our software
compact discs in cardboard and paper instead of plastic when
customers request a physical disk. By end of 2015, employees in
our EMEA locations only use recycled paper, and we are seeking
to expand the availability and use of recycled paper globally.
From 2009 to 2015, we have reduced our paper usage by almost
25% through a global printing optimization initiative that, among
other improvements, sets our printers to a default setting for
double-sided printing and black-and-white printouts instead of
color.
In 2015, we continued our rollout of a new secure pull printing
system on devices in public printing rooms that started in 2014.
Employees must bring their ID badges to the public printing

Fehler! Kein Text mit angegebener Formatvorlage im Dokument. Waste and Water
Created: 29.03.2016 09:48

26

room to activate a job – thereby heightening awareness and
adding a step to the printing process. At the end of 2015, we
finished the global rollout with more than 56,000 employees
using this secure pull printing method. Since Q3/2014, our
printing volume has been reduced by 13.7 million pages. A
printing dashboard – available to all SAP employees – shows the
company’s progress in reducing paper consumption on global,
regional, and country levels.
In 2016, we plan to pilot an employee mobile app that will give
employees their personal carbon footprint. The app will provide
key figures such as number of printed pages or total gas
consumption of a company car. We expect this will further
create awareness towards the employees and will support the
effort of changing working behaviors to act even more
sustainable.
USING GRAY WATER, INSTALLING WATERLESS FIXTURES,
AND APPLYING OTHER EFFICIENCY EFFORTS
While our operations are not water-intensive, we continue to use
water as efficiently as possible. We estimate that we used
approximately 1,060,000 cubic meters of water worldwide in
2015 (2014: 972,000 cubic meters). As part of our efficiency
efforts, we use rain and run-off water for irrigation and toilets in
Walldorf, Germany, and other office locations. In some of our
offices in Brazil, Canada, India, Israel, Singapore, Switzerland,
and the United States, we have installed waterless restroom
fixtures, flow restrictor valves, and reduced-flush or dual-flush
toilets. For example, at SAP Labs in São Leopoldo, we reduced
37% of potable water consumption, optimizing sewage
treatment operation when compared to 2014. A few of our
offices are located in areas with significant water scarcity. In
locations such as Ra’anana, Israel, or in Bangalore, we address
this issue with dedicated water management efforts that range
from sound water management and reuse of treated sewage
water to employee awareness campaigns.

Fehler! Kein Text mit angegebener Formatvorlage im Dokument. Waste and Water
Created: 29.03.2016 09:48

27

Non-Financial Notes:
Social Performance
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE SOCIAL NONFINANCIAL INDICATORS
Boundaries
Our boundaries take two different perspectives: SAP as a
company, which includes all our legal entities and operations
and supply chain, and SAP as a solution provider enabling our
customers. These boundaries are listed in detail in the GRI G4
Content Index.
Social Indicators
Data for our social indicators is collected and reported on a
quarterly basis and is subject to external assurance for annual
reporting.
Employee Retention
We define employee retention as a ratio that puts emphasis on
employee-initiated turnover – in other words, we seek to
measure how many employees choose to stay with SAP. We
derive our retention rate by starting with our average number of
employees expressed in FTEs in a given year and subtracting
employee-initiated turnover. We then divide this figure by our
average number of employees in that year to get our retention
rate. As opposed to keeping a low turnover rate – which
companies generally seek to do – we aim to keep our retention
rate high. A higher retention rate signifies that fewer employees
are choosing to leave SAP.
In 2015, we scaled back in areas where we see no significant
growth in the future, to fund our continued investments in
growth areas including cloud, SAP HANA, and business
networks all while keeping a solid financial foundation. As part of
this program, roughly 3,000 employees moved into new jobs or
left SAP.

position is filled, there will be integration costs, for example for
onboarding and training. These costs are usually higher than the
savings from not occurring payroll costs during the time of the
vacancy. From a revenue perspective, there is a gap during the
vacancy period as no new revenue can be generated. Even when
the position is filled, a new hire will need a certain amount of
time to achieve 100% productivity.
Women in Management
We define women in management as the share of women in
management positions as compared to the total number of
managers.
– At SAP, we differentiate between the following categories of
managers:
– Managers managing teams: Refers to managing teams of at
least one employee or empty positions
– Managers managing managers: Refers to managing
managers that manage teams
– Board members
Business Health Culture Index
The Business Health Culture Index (BHCI) measures the general
cultural conditions in an organization that enable employees to
stay healthy and balanced. The index covers questions
concerning how employees rate their personal well-being and
the working conditions at SAP, including our leadership culture.
The BHCI is an indicator to what extent SAP successfully offers
employees a working environment that promotes health
supporting their long-term employability and their active
engagement in reaching our ambitious corporate goals.

We do not differentiate between gender when we analyze
retention and turnover rates.

The BHCI is calculated based on the results of an employee
survey that is conducted annually. All employees were invited to
take part in the 2015 people survey and 56,557 employees
(response rate: 72%) participated in the people survey.

Financial Impact of Employee Retention
We understand that every replacement of an employee has a
significant financial impact, from both a cost perspective and a
lost revenue perspective. On the cost side there are recruiting
costs such as advertisements or cost for interviews. Once a

The BHCI score for 2014 was recalculated from 70% to 72%
based on two updated questions in the people survey
concerning work-life balance. The changes were done to simplify
the questionnaire and to achieve better comparability against
external benchmarks.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Social Performance

28

Employee Engagement
We define employee engagement as a score for the level of
employee commitment, pride, and loyalty, as well as our
employees’ feeling of advocacy for SAP.
It is calculated based on the results of an employee survey that
is conducted annually. All employees were invited to take part in
the 2015 people survey and 56,557 employees (response rate:
72%) participated in the people survey.
Customer Loyalty
We measure customer loyalty using the Net Promoter Score
(NPS). The NPS is derived from the following survey question
“How likely would you be to recommend SAP to friends or
colleagues?” Customers choose from a range of 0 - 10.
Customers choosing a 9 or 10 are considered Promoters.
Passives answer the question with a rating of 7 or 8, and
Detractors with a rating of 6 or less.
The survey questionnaire is sent out once a year to all direct
customers in all regions. From each company, multiple
stakeholder groups (decision makers, influencers, end-users)
are invited to participate in the survey. In 2015, 19% of our
customers took part in the survey (that is, unique customer
responses). In 2015 customers from SAP Hybris and Concur
were included for the first time. Due to changes in sampling,
resulting from ongoing efforts to implement the survey process
holistically in recently acquired entities, the 2015 score is not
fully comparable with the prior year’s score.
The NPS is calculated using the following formula: NPS = % of
Promoters - % of Detractors. Passives are not included in the
calculation. The NPS can range from -100% to 100%.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Social Performance

29

Non-Financial Notes:
Environmental
Performance
WHAT CAUSES OUR EMISSIONS: A DETAILED VIEW
We look at our energy usage and emissions throughout our
entire value chain, gaining insights to help us manage our
environmental performance and, in turn, help our customers do
the same. Below we highlight the activities and trends that lie
behind our results for 2015, from where we consume the most
purchased electricity to the impact we have through the use of
our products.
Direct Emissions (Scope 1)
Consumption of fuel for our company cars remains the single
greatest contributor to our Scope 1 emissions. In 2015, we
continued to enhance our car policy by linking emissions caps to
efficiency improvements of the automotive industry. In addition,
we focused on greater shifts in commuting habits. We continued
the global roll-out of TwoGo by SAP, our ride sharing solution,
which is now available in 114 SAP locations worldwide. To
increase scale and attractiveness of TwoGo, the solution is
available to the public free of charge. With our 20% electric
vehicles in 2020 initiative we continue to offer incentives to our
employees to purchase electrical cars. As example of additional
mobility alternatives for our employees we established a
company bike program in Germany, where employees have the
opportunity to select between using a bicycle or a company car
to commute to work. Furthermore we expanded the “Bahncard
100” offering as a commuting alternative to a company car in
Germany.
Indirect Emissions (Scope 2)
Our purchased electricity powers everything from our data
centers to our buildings throughout the world. Whenever we
refer to our green Cloud, we mean our Cloud is carbon neutral
due to purchasing 100% renewable electricity certificates and
compensation by offsets, at SAP. We continued a wide range of
efficiency projects to reduce our energy usage, including facility
upgrades and new LEED certifications. We also expanded the

management of our environmental performance through ISO
14001.
Upstream Emissions (Scope 3)
Only selected upstream emissions like business flights, paper
consumption and co-locations of data centers are directly
measured and hence included in our corporate target. The
additional upstream emissions products and services or grey
energy of our buildings are based on an estimate. Together our
upstream emissions are responsible for about 16% of SAPs total
carbon footprint.
As it is expected that the emissions from external data centers
(Co-Locations) will continue to grow in the future, SAP
committed to a green cloud strategy, to compensate the
emissions with renewable electricity certificates.
Downstream Emissions (Scope 3)
The vast majority of our overall emissions stem from the use of
our software. When SAP software runs on our customers’
hardware and on their premises, the resulting carbon footprint is
about 21 times the size of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
We have developed a strategy to help our customers, hardware
providers, and others address this impact. Given that we cannot
control our customers’ IT landscapes because they usually
contain many elements not related to SAP software, we share
this responsibility with others.
Our downstream emissions strategy focuses on two main areas.
We continue to engage with our customers to optimize their on
premise landscapes. We work with our customers to help them
decommission legacy systems, archive unused data, and
consolidate their business applications, as well as virtualize their
system landscape – all of which helps reduce the size and cost
of their IT environment. The second part of our strategy involves
SAP HANA, which not only increases computing speed but can
also help create much leaner and simpler operations. With SAP

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

30

HANA, the worlds of analytic and transactional data are merged
into one real-time, in-memory platform, which can further
simplify the system landscape for our customers.

(kWh/employee) by data center energy (own data centers plus
external co-locations) per million Euro non-IFRS revenue
(kWh/million € non-IFRS revenue).

One of the most important ways that we can help our customers
reduce their energy usage and emissions is by managing their
SAP systems through managed cloud services provided by
SAP’s green Cloud offerings, thereby enabling them to share our
infrastructure. Using 100% renewable energy in our data
centers in 2015, our green cloud strategy will further advance
our ability to help our customers reduce their carbon footprints.

GREENHOUSE GAS FOOTPRINT
We define the Greenhouse Gas Footprint (GHG Footprint) or
carbon footprint as the sum of all greenhouse gas emissions
measured and reported for SAP, including the compensation
with renewable energy or offsets. SAP’s preparation of the GHG
Footprint is based on the Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope
3) Standard of the World Resources Institute/World Business
Council for Sustainable Development. This approach conforms
with the requirements of GRI G4 indicators EN3, EN4, EN15,
EN16, and EN17.

Offsets
It is our policy to only apply offsets to our Scope 3 emissions.
Our investment in Livelihoods Fund has provided us with 23
ktons of high-quality carbon credits, which we used to
compensate Scope 3 emissions in 2015.
As a new approach we introduced carbon emission offsets for
business flights in 2015. In addition to avoiding and reducing
overall business flights, we began to offset selected business
flights in the second half of 2015. This offset effort resulted in a
compensation of 35 ktons of CO2.
GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Boundaries
Our boundaries take two different perspectives: SAP as a
company, which includes all our legal entities and operations
and supply chain, and SAP as a solution provider enabling our
customers. These boundaries are listed in detail in the GRI G4
Content Index.
Environmental Indicators
Data for our environmental indicators is collected and reported
on a quarterly basis and is subject to external assurance for
annual reporting.
Reporting on Total Energy Consumed, Data Center Energy, and
Renewable Energy is based on the data collected for the
calculation of our Greenhouse Gas Footprint (GHG Footprint).
Therefore, the same reporting principles apply as for the GHG
Footprint.
All numbers are based on the metric system. Whenever we state
“tons” we mean metric tons.
The indicators greenhouse gas emissions per employee, total
energy consumed per employee are calculated on the basis of
an average number of employees. This average is calculated by
adding the full-time equivalents (FTE) at the end of each quarter
and then dividing the result by four. Representing our cloud
strategy and increased consumption of computing power and
thus data center energy by our customers we replace the
performance indicator data center energy per employee

Reporting Principles
GHG accounting and reporting practices are evolving and are
new to many businesses; however, the principles listed below
are derived in part from generally accepted financial accounting
and reporting principles. They also reflect the outcome of a
collaborative process involving stakeholders from a wide range
of technical, environmental, and accounting disciplines. (Source:
GHG Protocol – Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard)
GHG accounting and reporting shall be based on the following
principles:
– Relevance: Ensuring the GHG inventory appropriately
reflects the GHG emissions of the company and serves the
decision-making needs of users – both internal and external
to the company.
– Completeness: Accounting for, and reporting all of GHG
emissions sources and activities within the chosen inventory
boundary. Disclose and justify any specific exclusion.
– Consistency: Using consistent methodologies to allow for
meaningful
comparison
of
emissions
over
time.
Transparently document any changes to the data, inventory
boundary, methods, or any other relevant factors in the time
series.
– Transparency: Addressing all relevant issues in a factual and
coherent manner, based on a clear audit trail. Disclose any
relevant assumptions and make appropriate references to
the accounting and calculation methodologies and data
sources used.
– Accuracy: Ensuring that the quantification of GHG emissions
is systematically neither over nor under true emissions, as far
as can be judged, and that uncertainties are reduced as far as
practicable. Achieving sufficient accuracy to enable users to
make decisions with reasonable assurance as to the integrity
of the reported information.
(Source: GHG Protocol – Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard)

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

31

SAP does not consider a dual reporting of the recently
introduced amendment to the GHG Protocol Scope 2.

Below you will find the different parameters contributing to our
carbon footprint:

Organizational Boundaries
SAP defines our organizational boundaries by applying the
operational control approach as set out in the GHG Protocol.
Operational control is established when SAP has the full
authority to introduce and implement its operating policies. The
emissions of all operations over which the company has
operational control and all owned, leased facilities, co-location
data centers and vehicles that the company occupies/operates
are accounted for in the GHG Footprint, being based on either
measurements or, where no measured data is available, on
estimations and extrapolations.
A portion of SAP’s leased facilities operates under full-service
and/or multi-tenant leases, where the building owner/manager
pays for the utilities directly and SAP does not have access to
actual energy consumption information. SAP includes these
facilities in its definition of operational control and accounts for
them by estimating related energy consumption.
To support the growing demand for SAP’s cloud offerings, we
sub-contract computation power in local third party data
centers. Carbon emissions are approximated and included
based on the consumed computation power.
In most instances, however, SAP has 100% ownership of our
subsidiaries. Accordingly, the difference between applying the
control versus the equity approach is about 0.6 % based on SAP
revenue. If further investments in associates were included, the
difference would be even smaller, about 0.5%.
The 2015 carbon footprint also includes the emissions from our
acquisitions like Concur (official acquisition in Q4/2014),
SuccessFactors (official acquisition in Q1/2012), Ariba (official
acquisition in Q3/2012), Hybris (official acquisition in Q3/2013)
and Fieldglass (official acquisition in Q2/2014).
Our gross carbon footprint for 2015 was 704 ktons CO2 (683
ktons CO2 in 2014). Our gross carbon footprint includes all
relevant GHG emission categories in scope 1, 2 and 3 (see Figure
1). Our net carbon footprint is reduced by purchased renewable
energy certificates and carbon offsets in the respective
reporting period.
Methodology
In our efforts to continuously improve the data quality of our
corporate carbon footprint data, we conducted a
comprehensive methodology update in 2010 to fully adapt the
GHG Protocol guidelines. We are reporting all our GHG
emissions in CO2 equivalents (CO2e), including the impact from
CH4, N2O, and HFCs in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. As SF6 and
PCFs mainly occur in chemical processes, they are not relevant
for us.

Scope 1
Stationary Combustion Facilities: Inclusion of CH4 and N2O;
stable values (kWh/m2) instead of actual average consumption
are used for extrapolation of buildings where no measured data
is available (50% measured data). In cases where no specific
information is available, natural gas reported by local sites is
assumed to be reported in Lower Heating Value.
Refrigerants Facilities: Refrigerant data is reported for
completeness of our carbon footprint, but HFC emissions are
fully estimated (0% measured data) based on the number of
server units and office space with an A/C system; all
refrigerants are assumed to be HFC134a.
Mobile Combustion Corporate Cars: Inclusion of CH4 and N2O;
in 2015, 31 countries reported actual fuel data (92% data
coverage); for other countries stable values (liters/car) are used
for extrapolation based on the number of corporate cars
reported. The stable values for extrapolation are based on SAP’s
2009 carbon footprint data.
Refrigerants Corporate Cars: Refrigerant emissions are based
on a rough estimate of HFC emissions per car and are
extrapolated based on the number of corporate cars reported
(0% measured data).
Mobile Combustion Corporate Jets: Inclusion of CH4 and N2O
(100% data coverage)

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

32

Scope 2
Electricity Office: Updated CO2 conversion factors and inclusion
of CH4 and N2O based on country specific grid factors; stable
values (kWh/m2) instead of actual average consumption are
used for the extrapolation of buildings where no measured data
is available (75% data coverage). The stable values are based on
SAP’s 2009 carbon footprint data.
Electricity Data Centers: Updated CO2 conversion factors and
inclusion of CH4 and N2O based on country specific grid factors;
electricity consumption for internal data centers is extrapolated
based on the number of server units (73% data coverage). The
stable values are based on SAP’s 2009 carbon footprint data.
Purchased Chilled and Hot Water, Steam: Inclusion of CH4 and
N2O based on country-specific grid factors (100% data
coverage)
Scope 3
The following scope 3 GHG emissions are included in our
corporate GHG target:
Business Flights: Average emission factors for business flights
are calculated based on short-, medium-, and long-haul flights;
extrapolation of CO2 is based on the actual distance travelled
and the net (excluding tax) costs (58% data coverage), emission
factors for business flights do not consider the radiative forcing
factors.
Rental Cars: Average emission factors from rental cars are
calculated based on actual distance traveled and these factors
are used for extrapolation based on the costs (89% data
coverage).
Train Travel: Average emission factors from train travel are
calculated based on an actual distance traveled and these
factors are used for extrapolation based on the costs (31% data
coverage).
Business Trips with Private Cars: Carbon calculation is based
on distance traveled with a private car. Train and company car
trips are excluded from this activity type (58% data coverage).
Employee Commuting: A system-integrated commuting survey
about the distance to work and the mode of transport is
conducted annually for SAP globally. The survey responses are
the basis for carbon calculation of employee commuting in the
following year. More than 24’000 employees responded to the
survey in 2014. Commuting for non-responding employees and
quarterly updates are extrapolated based on the number of
FTEs excluding those employees who own a corporate car.
Electricity External Data Centers: Updated CO2 conversion
factors and inclusion of CH4 and N2O based on country specific
grid factors; electricity consumption for external data centers is
extrapolated based on the data center capacity, a utilization and

power usage effectiveness (PUE) factor. As the utilization and
PUE factors are not available for all external data centers, the
average of all provided factors is used as estimate for external
data centers with missing information (87% data coverage).
Logistics: Calculation is based on the actual number of parcels
and mail sent from the German logistics center and is
extrapolated globally.
Data Download: Carbon calculation is based on the data volume
downloaded by our customers globally (100% data coverage).
Paper Consumption: Calculation for emissions caused by the
consumption of printing paper is based on printer tracker data
(100% data coverage).
An External Data Center is a local computing center with server
units running SAP software that is operated by an external
partner. Those emissions are classified as Scope 3. The SAP
owned and managed data centers, coming from acquisitions
(e.g. Sybase or Ariba) are classified as Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Additionally, we annually measure and publish the following
Scope 3 GHG emissions based on the GHG Protocol’s Corporate
Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
These GHG emissions are not included in our corporate target
and are meant to be for indicative purpose only.
Upstream:
Purchased Goods and Services: Globally available monetary
information is used to assess the carbon emitted in the
production of goods and services by different sectors in the
economy. The financial data used covers about 90-95% of our
purchased goods and services.
Capital Goods: Globally available monetary information is used
to assess the carbon emitted in the production of capital goods
by different sectors in the economy (financial data coverage:
100%)
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or
2: Upstream emissions of purchased fuels, upstream emissions
of purchased electricity, and transmission and distribution
losses. Emissions are calculated based on fuel and electricity
consumption data and on regional emission factors for energy
losses and fuel production in CO2equivalents (data coverage of
energy/fuel consumption data: see relevant Scope 1 and 2
categories above).
Waste Generated in Operations: Includes all recyclable and
non-recyclable waste (including e-waste) generated by offices
and data centers from our global operations. Estimates are
based on German totals and are extrapolated by FTE headcount.
Emissions are calculated using Scope 1 and 2 emission factors
for end-of-life treatment. Data on municipal waste was provided

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

33

(estimated) for about 40% of the total space, e-waste data was
provided for about 25% of the FTEs (for Germany).

Permanent: The GHG reductions will be permanent or have
guarantees to ensure that any losses are replaced in the future.

Due to the link of our upstream to operating expenses, for 2015
we extrapolated our upstream figures by multiplying our four key
contributors to our upstream emissions from 2014 with the year
over year increase of operating expenses between 2014 and
2015.

Verifiable: The GHG reductions will result from projects whose
performance can be readily and accurately quantified,
monitored and verified.

Downstream:
Use of Sold Products: Resource need per year is determined
using a landscape simulation. It is extrapolated globally based
on the number of productive installations and power usage
effectiveness (PUE). We use a PUE factor of 1.9, representing a
global average determined by The Green Grid Consortium.
Emissions are calculated using a global electricity emission
factor. Due to the special characteristics of software products,
an assessment of resource need per year was chosen. This
deviates from the minimum boundaries as defined by the GHG
Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
Reporting Standard, which requires assessment and disclosure
of “direct use-phase emissions of sold products over their
expected lifetime”. The calculation covers all SAP’s main
solutions including on premise product portfolio, Sybase
installations and for the first time SAP HANA, SAP Mobile and
SAP Cloud. Mobile apps are not included. Calculation
parameters will be adapted when significant technology changes
occur.
Not included: Upstream Transportation and Distribution (due to
data complexity and de minimis); Upstream Leased Assets (not
applicable); Processing of Sold Products (not applicable); Endof-Life Treatment of Sold Products (not applicable);
Downstream Leased Assets (not applicable); Franchises (not
applicable); and Investments (not applicable).
External Reduction
Renewable Electricity: Purchased renewable electricity is
already deducted from our Scope 2 emissions in the net carbon
footprint; CO2, CH4, and N2O conversions are based on grid
specific factors from the origin of renewable electricity; data is
only valid with an official certificate or written confirmation of
the electricity supplier (100% data coverage).
Offsets: Purchased offsets are reported separately based on the
carbon reduction amount purchased. SAP ensures that the GHG
emission reductions from offsets are credible and that they
meet four key accounting principles:
Real: The quantified GHG reductions will represent actual
emission reductions that have already occurred.
Additional: The GHG reductions will be surplus to regulation and
beyond what would have happened in the absence of the project
or in a business-as-usual scenario based on a performance
standard methodology.

A requirement for offsets is that the minimum standard (VCS –
Voluntary Carbon Standard) is applied. In 2015 our strategic
investment in the Livelihoods fund has provided us 23 ktons of
offsets which are included in our overall net carbon footprint.
CO2 Emission Factors
The calculation of the above emissions is based on factors for
conversion and extrapolation provided, among others, by IEA,
WRI, US EPA, UK DEFRA, DEHSt, Environment Canada, GHG
Protocol, and SAP’s own measurements.
Where relevant, our CO2 Emission Factors consider all CO2
equivalents (CO2e) for all greenhouse gases. Global Warming
Potential factors are based on the Second Assessment Report
(SAR) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC).
Comparability
The GHG Protocol requires that, in the case of a
structural/organizational change or a change in methodology,
companies adjust to historic year inventories if the change has a
significant effect on reported emissions. SAP uses a significance
threshold of 5% for structural/organizational changes and 1%
for methodology changes of total current year emissions. For
example, a structural/organizational change that increases or
decreases the total inventory by 5% or more will trigger an
adjustment of historic years. A structural/organizational change
that increases or decreases the total inventory by less than 5%
will be considered insignificant and thus no adjustment will be
made.
Additionally, we annually measure the cumulative cost
avoidance of our carbon emissions, compared to a business-asusual scenario. In 2015 we introduced a cumulative cost
avoidance calculation based on a triennial rolling method. This
leads to additional comparability and we will continue to
calculate our cumulative cost avoidance with the triennial rolling
approach.
Data Quality Carbon Footprint
Error Correction: If a significant error is found in the base year
inventory, it will be corrected. If a significant error is found which
does not affect the base year but has an impact on this year’s or
last year’s emissions, it will be corrected. An error is significant if
it effects SAP’s gross carbon footprint by more than 1%. No
restatement due to error correction of historical data was
necessary in 2015.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

34

RENEWABLE ENERGY
We define renewable energy as electricity coming from
renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, hydro,
geothermal, and biomass. The shares of renewable energy used
by SAP are calculated by adding the amount of renewable
energy specifically sourced, produced onsite by our own solar
cells and covered by Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). We
have developed a quality standard that defines key criteria for
the procurement of RECs in order to drive change in the
electricity market and to avoid the risk caused by low quality
products. The key characteristics of SAP’s Renewable Energy
purchasing guidelines are:

the creation, the maintenance and the cloud consumption of our
software in internal and external data centers.

Type of renewable electricity: SAP considers solar, wind,
biogas, geothermal and hydro power as renewable electricity.
Renewable electricity from biomass is only considered if it is
disconnected from coal or other fossil power plants and if the
biomass itself is not related to deforestation.

TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED
We define total energy consumed as the sum of all energy
consumed through SAP own operations, including energy from
renewable sources. It is calculated based on the consumption
data obtained through our measurements for the GHG footprint
and is the sum of energy consumption from stationary
combustion facilities, mobile combustion corporate cars, mobile
combustion corporate jets, electricity offices, electricity data
centers, electricity external data centers, and purchased chilled
water, purchased hot water, and purchased steam. For more
information, see Greenhouse Gas Footprint.

Installation: The power plant producing the renewable energy
shall not be older than 10 years. In case of a renovation of an old
power plant, the 10 year rule applies only to the additional
electricity output due to efficiency increase. Furthermore, SAP
does not consider RECs from government supported power
plants.
Vintage: The renewable electricity must be produced in the
same year or the year before with regard to the reporting period
it will be applied.
Accounting: To calculate the carbon reduction achieved by the
REC, SAP will use the grid-specific emissions factor. As RECs
are considered independently to the electricity delivered
physically to our facilities, the carbon reduction achieved
through their procurement can be allocated to any location
globally.

Data center energy consumption per euro is calculated by
dividing the electricity consumption of all internal and external
data centers measured for the calculation of our GHG Footprint
(for more information, see Greenhouse Gas Footprint: Electricity
Data Centers and Electricity External Data Centers) by the total
non-IFRS revenue.
We will continuously improve data
consumption of external data centers.

quality

of

energy

WATER
By water, we mean total freshwater withdrawn for our facilities.
Data is based on estimations from sites and is largely
extrapolated. Data was provided (estimated) for 55% of the
total space; the remaining data is extrapolated based on square
meter footage.
WASTE
By waste, we mean any recyclable or non-recyclable waste
produced in our offices and data centers. Data is based on
estimations from sites and is largely extrapolated. For more
information, see Greenhouse Gas Footprint.

All energy outside the above mentioned categories falls within
conventional energy. We define conventional energy as
electricity coming from the standard electricity grid. The
electricity grid provides a country-specific energy mix including
all available sources, either fossil, nuclear, or renewable. Energy
from renewable sources as part of the local grid is calculated as
conventional energy and not displayed as part of renewable
energy.
DATA CENTER ENERGY
We define data center energy as the sum of energy consumed to
provide internal and external computation power in SAP data
centers and contracted third party data centers. A data center is
any global, regional, or local computing center (location with any
number of server units) that is part of our Global IT
infrastructure strategy. In 2015 we continued analyzing and
reporting internal and external data center energy consumption
intensity against our non-IFRS revenue. Our revenue represents

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance

35

Management’s
Acknowledgement of
the SAP Integrated
Report 2015
The International Integrated Reporting (<IR>) Framework
launched by the International Integrated Reporting Council in
December 2013 has a provision that an integrated report should
include a statement in which management acknowledges its
responsibility for the report. Our respective statement for 2015
is as follows:

continue to strive for further alignment with the <IR>
Framework in future reports.

The SAP Integrated Report 2015 is available online only. The
Executive Board is aware of its responsibility to ensure the
integrity of our integrated report. The members of the Executive
Board have applied their collective mind to the preparation and
presentation of our integrated report.
Similar to our previous reports in 2013 and 2014, our 2015
integrated report is structured along the content elements
suggested in the <IR> Framework. We have applied the Guiding
Principles of the <IR> Framework, but we also must ensure our
compliance with legal requirements, such as the provisions
regarding financial reporting in the German Commercial Code as
set out in detail in the German Accounting Standard 20 Group
Management Report, while balancing other reporting standards
such as the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), with the <IR> Framework.
Our Executive Board has reviewed the SAP Integrated Report
2015, including the consolidated financial statements, the
combined management report, as well as the other additional
content related to the GRI G4 Content Index.
Our Executive Board believes that the integrated report is
presented in accordance with the <IR> Framework as far as
possible given the aforementioned restrictions. Should the
aforementioned restrictions ever cease to apply, we will

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Management’s Acknowledgement of the SAP Integrated Report 2015

36

Integrated
Performance Analysis:
A holistic view of our
performance
APPROACH
Linking our non-financial and financial performance:
Advancing our model
Integrated reporting is based on the idea that social,
environmental, and economic performance are interrelated,
with each realm creating tangible impacts on the others. To
achieve a truly integrated strategy, we believe that we must
understand these connections and work to support them
throughout SAP.
Over the past several years, we have created a framework for
establishing concrete links between non-financial and financial
performance. Building on this, we determined how four social
and environmental indicators – our Business Health Culture
Index (BHCI), employee engagement, retention and emissions –
impact SAP’s operating profit. This year, for the first time, we
calculated and documented the complete return on investment
(ROI) along one of our cause-and-effect chains using a concrete
example. Our results offer hard data showing how an integrated
strategy not only mitigates our environmental impact and
enhances the wellbeing of our employees, but also boosts our
business success.
We act on this data both within SAP and our broader network of
customers and partners. We are transparent about our
methodology in the hopes of inspiring other companies to
document the benefits of an integrated strategy. And we will use
our results to evolve our own strategy and invest in tangible
steps to create positive economic, social and environmental
change.

RESULTS
As cited in the diagram accompanying our “approach”, recent
studies have documented the correlation between such
indicators as employee engagement and revenue or profit. In
2014, utilizing our own internal data, we established these links
in concrete terms for SAP, putting a dollar value on such
measures as how well we engage our employees, support their
work/life balance, inspire them to commit to our vision and
strategy, and succeed in reducing our carbon emissions.
Our methodology started with the creation of cause-and-effect
chains. These diagrams show how specific actions we take at
SAP lead to shifts in behavior, which in turn create impacts for
our business and finally produce a financial result. Such analysis
establishes more than a correlation between non-financial
indicators and financial impact. Instead, they reveal why and
how something such as employee engagement ultimately leads
to gains or losses in business performance. We believe that such
insights are a prerequisite for fully modeling the financial impact
of non-financial performance.
Using cause-and-effect analysis to document financial
impact
To create and validate these chains of cause and effect, we
turned to both internal and external stakeholders. We started
with those inside SAP, meeting in small groups that rigorously
examined the cascade of impacts from activities related to each
of our non-financial indicators. We next conferred with external
stakeholders, including academics, financial investors, and SAP
peers, to vet our findings.
We then used real data from SAP to translate our cause-andeffect chains into a documented impact on operating profit. For

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Integrated Performance Analysis: A holistic view of our performance

37

example, our initial assessment found that by fostering work
flexibility, we could improve work-life balance, which in turn
enhances productivity. Building on this assessment, our analysis
determined that this greater productivity leads to tangible
financial gains.
Since 2014, utilizing such techniques as linear regression
analysis, we have been documenting the financial impact of four
non-financial indicators: our BHCI (explained in more detail
below), employee engagement, retention, and carbon
emissions. We assessed the first three indicators in terms of
what a change by one percentage point would mean for SAP’s
operating profit, and we also assessed what a 1% decrease in
emissions would mean for operating profit, as detailed below.
Our results for 2015:
–
–
–
–

Business Health Culture Index1: €75 million to €85 million
Employee engagement1: €40 million to €50 million
Retention1: €45 million to €55 million
Carbon emissions1: €4 million

A case study: Documenting the financial impact of a
healthy work culture
Below we present the cause-and-effect chain for BHCI,
illustrating how we established the financial impact of this nonfinancial indicator. BHCI assesses the health of both our
organizational culture and our employees. Our chain starts with
activities that support health at SAP, from flexible work
arrangements to leadership development to our global health
and innovation awareness weeks. Each of these strengthens our
organizational culture and helps our employees manage stress,
achieve work/life balance, feel empowered in their roles, and
perform at their best.
Cause-and-Effect Chain for the Business Health Culture Index
(BHCI)

Moving from left to right, we diagram the impact of these
activities. Flexibility, for example, enhances stress resilience and
work/life balance, which in turn leads to greater productivity.
Greater productivity then results in a higher operating profit.
A case study: Calculating the ROI for the “Join In – Stay
Fit!” health initiative at SAP Deutschland SE & Co.KG
This year, for the first time, we were able to calculate the ROI for
a concrete example along one of our cause-and-effect chains,
using real data from the “Join In – Stay Fit!” program at SAP
Deutschland SE & Co.KG. The result: a positive ROI of 3.9. This
means that operating profit increased €3.90 for every €1
invested in the program.
The cause-and-effect chain for our Business Health Culture
Index (BHCI) illustrated above was taken as the basis for the
calculation. In 2014, we implemented a number of specific
measures within SAP Deutschland SE & Co. KG (around 4,800
staff) that were aimed at improving work-life balance (including
employee workshops that raised awareness and provided
concrete tips on how to change one's behavior). We were able to
clearly map the direct and indirect costs of this implementation,
as well as measure the difference in the work-life balance plus its
effect on the business health culture index (BHCI) before and
after the program's launch.
The calculation of the ROI in this example, based on the direct
and indirect costs of the measures as well as the positive
monetary impact of the resulting change in the BHCI, shows the
measures make sense from a financial perspective as well.
IMPACT
Producing an integrated report signals our commitment to the
idea that traditional financial measures alone do not paint a full
picture of a company’s performance. But we also believe that
integrated reporting is only as effective as the actions that
surround it. Even having an integrated strategy is not enough.
We must also implement such a strategy by taking real steps to
support our performance in every dimension – economic, social
and environmental.
We believe that documenting the financial impact of nonfinancial indicators brings us closer to taking these steps. Rather
than simply stating the business case for social or
environmental change, we now have the numbers to back it up.
This documentation helps to shift the conversation for business
leaders, investors, employees and other key stakeholders. It
establishes a level playing field for a wider range of actions that
support financial success; engaging employees or reducing our
emissions can no longer be seen as a nice-to-have, but as
essential to carrying out a successful business strategy.

The results reflect a quantification of a gross effect related to a change of a certain KPI and does not allow for
any net impact measurement. The evaluation of required investments to change the non-financial KPI's was
excluded from the scope. The economic gross impact of a single KPI includes interdependencies to other
KPIs, which is why our results do not allow for a cumulative effect across all KPIs included in this report. All
calculations are based on non-IFRS figures (as shown in the Integrated Report 2015).
1

Moving from creating a model to taking action
As we move forward, we aim to continually do our part to help
spread these ideas and their adoption, both inside and outside
SAP. We are working to embed these results more and more

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Integrated Performance Analysis: A holistic view of our performance

38

into our decision-making and quarterly business reviews, so that
they are used to help steer our business along with such factors
as revenue and cost. Our goal is for all senior business leaders at
SAP to recognize – and be held accountable for – the fact that
improving such measures as employee engagement also boosts
financial performance.
At the same time, we will continue to share our methodology
with our customers to help them win in the marketplace. We
now know that companies can achieve higher operating profit –
resulting from both greater cost efficiency as well as revenue
growth – by acting across economic, social and environmental
dimensions. More important, such companies will be better
equipped to lead in the future, as they navigate the world’s most
pressing challenges and help to bring about long-term
sustainable change.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Integrated Performance Analysis: A holistic view of our performance

39

Details: How our nonfinancial and financial
performance indicators
are interconnected
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Employee engagement is the level of employee commitment,
pride, and loyalty, as well as the feeling of employees of being
advocates for their company.
Capability Building >> Employee Engagement:
Because it is closely linked to how much a company develops its
employees and supports their careers, internal hiring to
management and expert positions positively affects employees’
commitment and loyalty. This hypothesis was confirmed by a
study of Bedarkar & Pandita (2014), which identified “career
opportunities” as the key driver of employee engagement.
Employer Ranking >> Employee Engagement:
Studies find that a company’s image and the associated pride of
employees (important criteria in employer rankings) are key
drivers of employee engagement (Global workforce study,
2012).
Employee Engagement >> Employer Ranking:
We believe that SAP will achieve higher rankings as an employer
if our employees demonstrate a high level of employee
engagement, as employee engagement is an important criterion
of employer rankings.
Social Investment >> Employee Engagement:
Mueller et al. (2012) have found that employees’ perception of a
company’s commitment to corporate social responsibility is
positively linked to their own commitment to the organization.
With corporate social responsibility and social investment
becoming more and more important to SAP, we expect to see
employee engagement increase as well.

Employee Engagement >> Profit:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. Now we can show
what a change by one percentage point of Employee
Engagement would mean for SAP’s operating profit, as you can
see under the section “Results”.
Profit >> Employee Engagement:
In our view, a high profit, as great business news, can raise
employee morale, encourage identification with our vision, and
thus drive employee engagement. On the other hand, we believe
that a high profit can also have a negative impact on employee
engagement. If, to reach an ambitious profit target, cost savings
and budget cuts are implemented, employees might feel
constrained and dissatisfied.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index)
>> Employee Engagement:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Employee
Engagement (the BHCI is influencing positively the Leadership
Trust Index, which is influencing positively the Employee
Engagement index, all correlations are significant).
Employee Engagement >> Employee Retention:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. We could proof that
there is a significant positive correlation between Employee
Engagement and Employee Retention.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

40

GHG Footprint >> Employee Engagement:
We believe that lowering SAP’s GHG footprint can have a
positive impact on employee engagement because loyalty will
rise as employees see their company act responsibly towards
the environment. However, because lowering emissions also
brings certain restrictions, such as flying less, it may also have a
negative impact on employee engagement.
Employee Engagement >> GHG Footprint:
We believe that engaged employees are likely to want to help
SAP achieve its target in lowering its GHG emissions. Yet
another possible outcome is that a higher level of employee
engagement may lead to more business activity requiring travel
and therefore could lead to an increase in GHG emissions.
Employee Engagement >> Revenue:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. We could proof that
there is a significant positive correlation between Employee
Engagement and Revenue.
Revenue >> Employee Engagement:
We believe that a higher revenue will have a positive impact on a
company’s work environment, thereby increasing employees’
pride and loyalty. This is also stated in a study of Harter et al.
(2010), saying that improving financial performance appears to
increase general satisfaction and some specific work
perceptions.
BHCI (BUSINESS HEALTH CULTURE INDEX)
The BHCI is a score for readiness of employees to accept
change, in particular their perception of affiliation and purpose,
leadership, recognition, empowerment, reward, stress level, and
life balance at SAP.
Women in Management
>> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
We believe that a balance of men and women in management
will help to create a more balanced working environment, one in
which diversity is valued and people feel free to express their
individual styles. It is our expectation that such an environment
will positively affect our Business Health Culture Index.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index)
>> Women in Management:
McKinsey (2013) found that different elements of the BHCI such
as flexible working hours, the ability to work from home, or
career flexibility – can make it easier for women to balance work
and family life. This leads us to conclude that the higher our
BHCI, the more attractive SAP will become to women who are
seeking management positions.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index) >> Profit:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. Now we can show what a change

by one percentage point of the BHCI would mean for SAP’s
operating profit, as you can see under the section “Results”.
Social Investment
>> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
We believe that by supporting our employees in engaging in
activities with a positive social impact, such as skills-based
volunteering, we are enhancing the meaning they find in work.
This sense of purpose helps to create a richer and more
rewarding work environment that reduces stress and promotes
satisfaction and well being.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index)
>> Employee Engagement:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Employee
Engagement (the BHCI is influencing positively the Leadership
Trust Index, which is influencing positively the Employee
Engagement index, all correlations are significant).
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index) >> Revenue:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Revenue.
GHG Footprint >> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
Many of SAP’s GHG emissions are caused by business travel
and commuting, which we believe can have both negative and
positive impacts on employee health. Some people may
experience greater stress through more travel because they
have less time to spend at home, are jet lagged, or lose valuable
working hours; others may enjoy travel, which enables them to
experience other places, meet new people, and get a taste of life
as a ‘jet setter’.
BHCI >> Customer Loyality:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Customer
Loyality.
EMPLOYEE RETENTION
Employee retention is the ratio of the average headcount
(expressed in full-time equivalents) minus employee-initiated
terminations (turnover) divided by the average headcount,
taking into account the past 12 months.
Capability Building >> Employee Retention:
According to the Global Workforce Study (2012) the “chances to
advance the career” is the second-most important driver of
employee retention. By promoting and thus growing from within,
SAP creates career opportunities for its employees. In turn, it is
our expectation that this opportunity leads to an increase in
employee retention.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

41

Employee Engagement >> Employee Retention:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. We could proof that
there is a significant positive correlation between Employee
Engagement and Employee Retention.
Employee Retention >> Revenue:
Meifert (2005) stated a clear relationship between employee
retention and the company’s revenue and margin
Employee Retention >> Customer Loyalty:
Koys (2001) has found evidence that employee turnover has a
negative impact on customer satisfaction. We believe this effect
stems from the fact that experienced employees work more
efficiently, have better product knowledge, can build trusting
relationships with colleagues and customers, and thus have the
ability to better serve customers’ needs.
Employee Retention >> Profit:
Meifert (2005) stated a clear relationship between employee
retention and the company’s revenue and margin
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT
Women in Management is the percentage of women in
management positions (managing teams, managing managers,
executive board) as compared to the total number of managers,
expressed by the number of individuals.
Capability Building >> Women in Management:
Like many other companies, SAP has more women in less senior
positions than in more senior ones. Given this significant pool of
talent, we assume that internal promotions will increase the
percentage of women in management positions.
Women in Management
>> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
We believe that a balance of men and women in management
will help to create a more balanced working environment, one in
which diversity is valued and people feel free to express their
individual styles. It is our expectation that such an environment
will positively affect our Business Health Culture Index.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index)
>> Women in Management:
McKinsey (2013) found that different elements of the BHCI such
as flexible working hours, the ability to work from home, or
career flexibility – can make it easier for women to balance work
and family life. This leads us to conclude that the higher our
BHCI, the more attractive SAP will become to women who are
seeking management positions.
Women in Management >> Employer Ranking:
Several research findings indicate that diversity and inclusion
programs (Roland Berger, 2011), as well as the presence of
female board directors (Catalyst, 2013), have a positive effect
on corporate reputation (an important criterion in employer

rankings). Looking at German companies, Roland Berger (2011)
estimate that the monetary impact of this relationship amounts
to €20.8 billion per year.
Employer Ranking >> Women in Management:
We believe that a highly ranked employer can attract talent
more easily. As SAP focuses on diversity – and in particular
women in management – women will likely feel more attracted
to our emloyer brand. As a result, we would expect to find more
women on the short list for management positions.
Women in Management >> Revenue Impact:
Studies show that companies with a relatively high percentage
of women in upper management ranks or as board members
achieve stronger financial performance compared to those with
a relatively low percentage (Catalyst, 2013). We believe that
having more women in management positions will increase our
revenue as it helps us to better serve our diverse customer base.
Women in Management >> Customer Loyalty:
Diversity programs – including those focused on the promotion
of women to management positions – have a direct and positive
impact on customer satisfaction. (Catalyst, 2013).
Women in Management >> Profit:
Studies show that companies with a high level of gender
diversity outperform companies with an average level in terms
of return on equity (11.4% vs. an average 10.3%); operating
results (EBIT 11.1% vs. 5.8%); and stock price increases (64%
vs. 47% over the period 2005-2007) (McKinsey, 2007). It is
therefore likely that a higher share of women in management
positions will result in a higher profit for SAP.
SOCIAL INVESTMENT
Social investment reflects SAP’s activities in volunteering and
technology and cash donations.
Social Investment
>> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
We believe that by supporting our employees in engaging in
activities with a positive social impact, such as skills-based
volunteering, we are enhancing the meaning they find in work.
This sense of purpose helps to create a richer and more
rewarding work environment that reduces stress and promotes
satisfaction and well being.
Social Investment >> Employee Engagement:
Mueller et al. (2012) have found that employees’ perception of a
company’s commitment to corporate social responsibility is
positively linked to their own commitment to the organization.
With corporate social responsibility and social investment
becoming more and more important to SAP, we expect to see
employee engagement increase as well.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

42

Social Investment >> Revenue:
A study by Muritala (2013) suggests that corporate social
responsibility (or what we characterize as social investment) is
likely to have a positive impact on an organization’s financial
performance. In our experience, social investments do in fact
have a positive impact on our ability to acquire new customers,
especially in emerging markets.
Profit >> Social Investment:
It is a common best practice for companies to invest a certain
percentage of their annual profits in programs and activities that
create a positive social impact. We believe that a higher profit is
therefore likely to lead SAP to make greater social investments.
Social Investment >> Employer Ranking:
As a company’s social activities such as volunteering or
donations are an important criterion in employer rankings, we
are certain that our social investment activities will affect our
ranking as an employer positively.
CAPABILITY BUILDING
Capability building is the internal hiring rate (promotions only)
into management or expert positions as compared to the
external hiring rate into such positions.
Capability Building >> Employee Retention:
According to the Global Workforce Study (2012) the “chances to
advance the career” is the second-most important driver of
employee retention. By promoting and thus growing from within,
SAP creates career opportunities for its employees. In turn, it is
our expectation that this opportunity leads to an increase in
employee retention.
Capability Building >> Employee Engagement:
Because it is closely linked to how much a company develops its
employees and supports their careers, internal hiring to
management and expert positions positively affects employees’
commitment and loyalty. This hypothesis was confirmed by a
study of Bedarkar & Pandita (2014), which identified “career
opportunities” as the key driver of employee engagement.
Capability Building >> Women in Management:
Like many other companies, SAP has more women in less senior
positions than in more senior ones. Given this significant pool of
talent, we assume that internal promotions will increase the
percentage of women in management positions.
EMPLOYER RANKING
Employer ranking is the attractiveness of SAP as an employer,
measured through external ratings and rankings.
Women in Management >> Employer Ranking:
Several research findings indicate that diversity and inclusion
programs (Roland Berger, 2011), as well as the presence of
female board directors (Catalyst, 2013), have a positive effect
on corporate reputation (an important criterion in employer

rankings). Looking at German companies, Roland Berger (2011)
estimate that the monetary impact of this relationship amounts
to €20.8 billion per year.
Employer Ranking >> Women in Management:
We believe that a highly ranked employer can attract talent
more easily. As SAP focuses on diversity – and in particular
women in management – women will likely feel more attracted
to our emloyer brand. As a result, we would expect to find more
women on the short list for management positions.
Employer Ranking >> Employee Engagement:
Studies find that a company’s image and the associated pride of
employees (important criteria in employer rankings) are key
drivers of employee engagement (Global workforce study,
2012).
Employee Engagement >> Employer Ranking:
We believe that SAP will achieve higher rankings as an employer
if our employees demonstrate a high level of employee
engagement, as employee engagement is an important criterion
of employer rankings.
GHG Footprint >> Employer Ranking:
According to Brown et al. (2010), corporate sustainability
reporting (including GHG) leads to an increase of reputation.
Notably, efforts to promote environmental protection are a key
differentiator for employers. Because a company’s appeal to
potential new hires helps to determine most employer rankings,
SAP’s commitment to lower our GHG Footprint is likely to
increase our ranking as an employer.
Employer Ranking >> Profit:
As a highly ranked employer, we believe SAP is able to attract
talented employees more easily, which could reduce the costs of
searching for talent and hiring new employees, thereby
increasing our profit.
REVENUE
Revenue is the total revenue SAP receives from the sale of its
products and services.
Social Investment >> Revenue:
A study by Muritala (2013) suggests that corporate social
responsibility (or what we characterize as social investment) is
likely to have a positive impact on an organization’s financial
performance. In our experience, social investments do in fact
have a positive impact on our ability to acquire new customers,
especially in emerging markets.
Women in Management >> Revenue Impact:
Studies show that companies with a relatively high percentage
of women in upper management ranks or as board members
achieve stronger financial performance compared to those with
a relatively low percentage (Catalyst, 2013). We believe that

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

43

having more women in management positions will increase our
revenue as it helps us to better serve our diverse customer base.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index) >> Revenue:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Revenue.
Employee Retention >> Revenue:
Meifert (2005) stated a clear relationship between employee
retention and the company’s revenue and margin
GHG Footprint >> Revenue:
Lowering SAP’s GHG Footprint could have a positive impact on
SAP’s revenue because customers increasingly ask their
suppliers to act sustainably. This reasoning is supported by a
study of PwC (2013) confirming the existence of a positive
correlation between a company’s environmental performance
and financial performance.
Employee Engagement >> Revenue:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. We could proof that
there is a significant positive correlation between Employee
Engagement and Revenue.
Revenue >> Employee Engagement:
We believe that a higher revenue will have a positive impact on a
company’s work environment, thereby increasing employees’
pride and loyalty. This is also stated in a study of Harter et al.
(2010), stating that improving financial performance appears to
increase general satisfaction and some specific work
perceptions.
Customer Loyalty >> Revenue:
Reichheld (2003) found a strong correlation between
companies’ Net Promoter Score results and their revenue
growth rates. We support this view as we believe that loyal SAP
customers are likely to recommend SAP products to other
companies, which is likely to result in increased sales and
stronger revenue.
Revenue >> Profit:
Profit (or loss) is the total of income less expenses; if revenue as
the main part of total income grows at a higher rate than costs, it
will lead to greater profit.
PROFIT
Profit (or loss) is the total of income less expenses.
BHCI (Business Health Culture Index) >> Profit:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. Now we can show what a change
by one percentage point of the BHCI would mean for SAP’s
operating profit, as you can see under the section “Results”.

Employee Engagement >> Profit:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of Employee Engagement. Now we can show
what a change by one percentage point of Employee
Engagement would mean for SAP’s operating profit, as you can
see under the section “Results”.
Profit >> Employee Engagement:
In our view, a high profit, as great business news, can raise
employee morale, encourage identification with our vision, and
thus drive employee engagement. On the other hand, we believe
that a high profit expectation can also have a negative impact on
employee engagement. If, to reach an ambitious profit target,
cost savings and budget cuts are implemented, employees
might feel constrained and dissatisfied.
Women in Management >> Profit:
Studies show that companies with a high level of gender
diversity outperform companies with an average level in terms
of return on equity (11.4% vs. an average 10.3%); operating
results (EBIT 11.1% vs. 5.8%); and stock price increases (64%
vs. 47% over the period 2005-2007) (McKinsey, 2007). It is
therefore likely that a higher share of women in management
positions will result in a higher profit for SAP.
Profit >> Social Investment:
It is a common best practice for companies to invest a certain
percentage of their annual profits in programs and activities that
create a positive social impact. We believe that a higher profit is
therefore likely to lead SAP to make greater social investments.
Renewable Energy >> Profit:
The purchase of renewable energy over conventional energy
sources is often correlated with higher costs, and thus we
expect a small negative impact on our profit when we augment
our purchase of renewable energy.
Employee Retention >> Profit:
Meifert (2005) stated a clear relationship between employee
retention and the company’s revenue and profit
Total Energy Consumed >> Profit:
We have found that reduced energy consumption is strongly
correlated with a reduction in costs. The thus achieved cost
avoidance has a positive impact on our profit.
Employer Ranking >> Profit:
As a highly ranked employer, we believe SAP is able to attract
talented employees more easily, which could reduce the costs of
searching for talent and hiring new employees, thereby
increasing our profit.
Revenue >> Profit:
Profit (or loss) is the total of income less expenses; if revenue as
the main part of total income grows at a higher rate than costs, it
will lead to greater profit.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

44

Customer Loyalty >> Profit:
We believe that positive experiences among our customers can
significantly increase business with existing customers, as well
as help attract new customers. Both results can lower the cost
of sales, thereby increasing our profit.
Data Center Energy >> Profit:
We have found that reduced energy consumption is strongly
correlated with a reduction in costs. The thus achieved cost
avoidance has a positive impact on our profit.
GHG Footprint >> Profit
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the GHG Footprint. Now we can show what a
reduction of SAP’s carbon emissions by one percentage would
mean for SAP’s operating profit, as you can see under the
section “Results”.
CUSTOMER LOYALTY
Customer loyalty is measured with the Net Promoter Score:
Percentage of customers that are likely to recommend SAP to
friends or colleagues minus the percentage of customers that
are unlikely to do so.
Women in Management >> Customer Loyalty:
Diversity programs – including those focused on the promotion
of women to management positions – have a direct and positive
impact on customer satisfaction. (Catalyst, 2013).
Employee Retention >> Customer Loyalty:
Koys (2001) has found evidence that employee turnover has a
negative impact on customer satisfaction. We believe this effect
stems from the fact that experienced employees work more
efficiently, have better product knowledge, can build trusting
relationships with colleagues and customers, and thus have the
ability to better serve customers’ needs.
GHG Footprint >> Customer Loyalty:
We believe that lowering SAP’s carbon emissions has a positive
reputational effect, thereby enhancing SAP’s standing with its
customers.
Customer Loyalty >> Revenue:
Reichheld (2003) found a strong correlation between
companies’ Net Promoter Score results and their revenue
growth rates. We support this view as we believe that loyal SAP
customers are likely to recommend SAP products to other
companies, which is likely to result in increased sales and
stronger revenue.
Customer Loyalty >> Profit:
We believe that positive experiences among our customers can
significantly increase business with existing customers, as well
as help attract new customers. Both results can lower the cost
of sales, thereby increasing our profit.

BHCI (Business Health Culture Index)
>> Customer Loyality:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the BHCI. We could proof that there is a
significant positive correlation between the BHCI and Customer
Loyality.
GHG FOOTPRINT (GREENHOUSE GAS FOOTPRINT)
Our GHG footprint is the sum of all greenhouse gas emissions
measured and reported, including renewable energy and third
party reductions, for example, offsets.
GHG Footprint >> BHCI (Business Health Culture Index):
Many of SAP’s GHG emissions are caused by business travel
and commuting, which we believe can have both negative and
positive impacts on employee health. Some people may
experience greater stress through more travel because they
have less time to spend at home, are jet lagged, or lose valuable
working hours; others may enjoy travel, which enables them to
experience other places, meet new people, and get a taste of life
as a ‘jet setter’.
GHG Footprint >> Employer Ranking:
According to Brown et al. (2010), Corporate sustainability
reporting (including GHG) leads to an increase of reputation.
Notably, efforts to promote environmental protection are a key
differentiator for employers. Because a company’s appeal to
potential new hires helps to determine most employer rankings,
SAP’s commitment to lower our GHG Footprint is likely to
increase our ranking as an employer.
GHG Footprint >> Employee Engagement:
We believe that lowering SAP’s GHG footprint can have a
positive impact on employee engagement because loyalty will
rise as employees see their company act responsibly towards
the environment. However, because lowering emissions also
brings certain restrictions, such as flying less, it may also have a
negative impact on employee engagement.
Employee Engagement >> GHG Footprint:
We believe that engaged employees are likely to want to help
SAP achieve its target in lowering its GHG emissions. Yet
another possible outcome is that a higher level of employee
engagement may lead to more business activity requiring travel
and therefore could lead to an increase in GHG emissions.
GHG Footprint >> Revenue:
Lowering SAP’s GHG Footprint could have a positive impact on
SAP’s revenue because customers increasingly ask their
suppliers to act sustainably. This reasoning is supported by a
study of PwC (2013) confirming the existence of a positive
correlation between a company’s environmental performance
and financial performance.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

45

GHG Footprint >> Customer Loyalty:
We believe that lowering SAP’s carbon emissions has a positive
reputational effect, thereby enhancing SAP’s standing with its
customers.
Renewable Energy >> GHG Footprint:
Increasing the percentage of renewable energy in our overall mix
of energy sources directly translates into a lower GHG footprint,
as we replace some of the energy generated by fossil fuels.

through offsets or – for electricity consumption – renewable
energy certificates (RECs).
Data Center Energy >> Total Energy Consumed:
The energy consumed in SAP’s data centers forms part of the
total energy consumed in our operations.
DATA CENTER ENERGY
Data center energy is the amount of energy consumed in SAP’s
data centers related to the number of employees.

Total Energy Consumed >> GHG Footprint:
The emissions caused by SAP’s energy consumption add
directly to the corporate carbon footprint if they are not reduced
through offsets or – for electricity consumption – renewable
energy certificates (RECs).

Data Center Energy >> Profit:
We have found that reduced energy consumption is strongly
correlated with a reduction in costs. The thus achieved cost
avoidance has a positive impact on our profit.

Data Center Energy >> GHG Footprint:
The emissions caused by SAP’s data center energy
consumption add directly to the corporate carbon footprint if
they are not reduced through offsets or renewable energy
certificates (RECs).

Data Center Energy >> GHG Footprint:
The emissions caused by SAP’s data center energy
consumption add directly to the corporate carbon footprint if
they are not reduced through offsets or renewable energy
certificates (RECs).

GHG Footprint >> Profit:
Since 2014, we used real data from SAP to analyze and proof the
financial impact of the GHG Footprint. Now we can show what a
reduction of SAP’s carbon emissions by one percentage would
mean for SAP’s operating profit, as you can see under the
section “Results”.

Data Center Energy >> Total Energy Consumed:
The energy consumed in SAP’s data centers forms part of the
total energy consumed in our operations.

TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED
Total energy consumed is the sum of all energy consumed
through SAP’s own operations, including energy from renewable
sources.
Total Energy Consumed >> Profit:
We have found that reduced energy consumption is strongly
correlated with a reduction in costs. The thus achieved cost
avoidance has a positive impact on our profit.
Total Energy Consumed >> GHG Footprint:
The emissions caused by SAP’s energy consumption add
directly to the corporate carbon footprint if they are not reduced

RENEWABLE ENERGY
Renewable energy reflects the shares and types of electricity
obtained from renewable sources such as hydro, wind, solar,
and biomass.
Renewable Energy >> Profit:
The purchase of renewable energy over conventional energy
sources is often correlated with higher costs, and thus we
expect a small negative impact on our profit when we augment
our purchase of renewable energy.
Renewable Energy >> GHG Footprint:
Increasing the percentage of renewable energy in our overall mix
of energy sources directly translates into a lower GHG footprint,
as we replace some of the energy generated by fossil fuels.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content
Details: How our non-financial and financial performance indicators are interconnected

46

Independent
Assurance Report
TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF SAP SE, WALLDORF
We have performed an independent assurance engagement on
selected qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures
on the web pages of the Integrated Report (further: “the
Report”) for the business year 2015 of SAP SE, Walldorf (further
“SAP”), published under
www.sapintegratedreport.com/2015/en/.
For the performance indicators Business Health Culture Index,
Employee Engagement, Employee Retention, Women in
Management, Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2 as well
as selected Scope 3 emissions including business flights and
employee commuting), Renewable Energy and Total Energy
Consumed, including the explanatory notes thereto, a
reasonable assurance engagement was performed.
For the disclosures on materiality and stakeholder engagement,
the disclosures on management approaches for the material
aspects (Business Conduct; Climate and Energy; Human Capital
Management; Security and Privacy) as well as for the other
qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures in relation
to these material aspects a limited assurance engagement was
performed.
The qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures
included in the scope of our assurance engagement are marked
in the GRI G4 Content Index, published online under
www.sap.com/integrated-reports/2015/en/gri-index-andunited-nations-global-compact/, with the following symbol: 
It was not part of our engagement to review product or services
related information, references to external information sources,
expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report.
Management´s Responsibility for the Report
The legal representatives of SAP are responsible for the
preparation of the Report in accordance with the Reporting
Criteria. SAP applies the principles and standard disclosures of
the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative in combination with the Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources

Institute / World Business Council for Sustainable Development,
as well as internally developed definitions, as described in the
‘Notes to Environmental respectively Social Performance
Reporting’ as Reporting Criteria.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of
appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of
assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and
quantitative sustainability disclosures which are reasonable
under the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility
includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and
processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way
that is free of – intended or unintended – material
misstatements.
Independence and quality assurance on the part of the
auditing firm
We have complied with the independence and other ethical
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants (IESBA-Codex), which is founded on fundamental
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and
due care, confidentiality and professional behavior.
The quality assurance system of the KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is based on the International
Standard on Quality Control 1 "Quality Control for Audit,
Assurance and Related Service Practices" (ISQC 1) and, in
addition on national statutory requirements and professional
standards, especially the Professional Code for Certified
Accountants as well as the joint statement of WPK (Chamber of
Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of Public Auditors in
Germany): Requirements for quality assurance in the auditing
practice (VO 1/2006).
Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work
performed and the evidences obtained on the qualitative and
quantitative sustainability disclosures marked in the GRI G4
Content Index with the following symbol: 

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Independent Assurance Report

47

Nature and extent of the assurance engagement
We conducted our work in accordance with the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised):
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard
on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB).
These standards require that we comply with our professional
duties and plan and perform the assurance engagement to
obtain a reasonable level of assurance to conclude that the
above mentioned performance indicators are prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the aforementioned
Reporting Criteria respectively to obtain a limited level of
assurance to preclude that the above mentioned qualitative and
quantitative sustainability disclosures are not prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the aforementioned
Reporting Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the
evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a
reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less
assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance
engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the
auditor’s own judgement. This includes the assessment of the
risk of material misstatement in the Report under consideration
of the Reporting Criteria.
Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst
others the following procedures when conducting the limited
assurance:
– An evaluation of the approach to determining material
sustainability topics and respective boundaries, including
results of stakeholder engagement.
– A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant
information on SAP’s sustainability performance in the
reporting period.
– Reviewing the suitability of the internally developed
definitions.
– Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems
and processes for the collection, processing and control of
the qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures
included in the scope of this engagement, including the
consolidation of the data.
– Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for
providing the data and information, carrying out internal
control procedures and consolidating the data and
information, including the ‘Notes to Environmental
respectively Social Performance Reporting’.
– Evaluation of internal and external documentation, to
determine whether the qualitative and quantitative
sustainability disclosures are supported by sufficient
evidence.
– An analytical review of the data and trend explanations
submitted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level.
– Reviewing the consistency of GRI G4 in-accordance option
‘Core’ as declared by SAP with the qualitative and

quantitative sustainability disclosures presented in the
Report.
– Evaluation of the overall presentation of the selected
qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures
included in the scope of our engagement.
In addition we conducted the following procedures to obtain
reasonable assurance:
– An evaluation of the design and implementation, and tests of
the operating effectiveness of the systems and methods used
to collect and process the data, including the aggregation of
these data into the performance indicators as presented in
the Report.
– Auditing internal and external documentation in order to
determine in detail whether the performance indicators for
the business year 2015 correspond with the relevant
underlying sources, and whether all the relevant information
contained in such underlying sources has been included in
the Report.
– Location visits to Walldorf and St. Leon Rot (both Germany),
Vienna (Austria) and Budapest (Hungary) to assess the
quality of information management systems and the
reliability of the data as reported to corporate level.
Conclusions
Based on the procedures performed and evidences received to
obtain reasonable assurance, the performance indicators
Business Health Culture Index, Employee Engagement,
Employee Retention, Women in Management, Greenhouse Gas
Emissions (Scope 1 and 2 as well as selected Scope 3 emissions
including business flights and employee commuting),
Renewable Energy and Total Energy Consumed for the business
year 2015, including the explanatory notes thereto, are, in all
material respects, presented in accordance with the Reporting
Criteria.
Based on the procedures performed and evidences received to
obtain limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that
causes us to believe that the disclosure on materiality and
stakeholder engagement, the disclosures on management
approaches for the material aspects (Business Conduct;
Climate and Energy; Human Capital Management; Security and
Privacy) as well as the other qualitative and quantitative
sustainability disclosures in relation to these material aspects
for the business year 2015, are, in all material respects, not
prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
Recommendation
Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we
recommend to further develop existing methods and
partnerships on software solutions’ impacts in a global
sustainability context, and to link the results with the materiality
analysis.

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Independent Assurance Report

48

This assurance report is issued based on an assurance
engagement agreed upon with SAP. The assurance engagement
to obtain reasonable respectively limited assurance is issued on
purpose of SAP and the assurance report is solely for
information purposes of SAP on the results of the assurance
engagement. This assurance report must not be used as basis
for (financial) decision-making by third parties of any kind. We
have responsibility only towards SAP. We do not assume any
responsibility for third parties.

Düsseldorf, February 25, 2016
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Simone Fischer
Wirtschaftsprüferin
(German Public Auditor)

ppa.
Christian Hell

SAP 2015 Integrated Report Sustainability Content Independent Assurance Report

49

