Sustainability
Information 2015
As addendum to the Siemens Annual Report

siemens.com

Foreword

Dear Readers,
In 2015, sustainability was regarded as one of the most critical and globally
­relevant topics on the political and business agenda. In June, the heads of state
of the seven largest industrial nations in the world committed to decarbonizing
the global economy by the end of this century. Such a commitment is essential
to limit global warming to 2°C and thus slow down climate change. In September,
the United Nations adopted the goals for sustainable development as a general
principle for the next 15 years.
Now, more than ever, companies are called upon to fulfill their role as corporate
citizens. And at Siemens, we accept this role without reservation or restriction.
We are convinced that a company is only entitled to exist if it creates sustainable
value for society over the long term.
We apply the principles of sustainability at Siemens across the entire value
chain – from our suppliers, through our own operations, to our customers – by
designing sustainable products and solutions. In the last fiscal year, our Environmental Portfolio enabled our customers and partners throughout the world to
significantly reduce their CO2 emissions by 487 million tons. This corresponds to
around half the annual CO2 emissions of Germany. As a result, they have been
able to enhance their energy efficiency while increasing their competitiveness.
But we want to achieve more – and we can achieve more. We have therefore
decided to reduce our own CO2 emissions more quickly: Siemens aims to be the
world’s first major industrial company to achieve a net-zero carbon footprint by
2030. Our goal is to cut our carbon dioxide emissions – which currently total
about 2.2 million metric tons a year – in half by as early as 2020.
To achieve this goal, we will invest some € 100 million over the next three years
in order to improve the energy efficiency of our production facilities and buildings. This investment is expected to generate annual savings of € 20 million. We
will also install our own distributed and renewable-energy systems at a growing
number of our facilities. For example, we already generate around 80 % of the
total electricity consumed at our plant in Sacramento – which builds locomotives
and light-rail vehicles for the U.S. market – using photovoltaic systems, and we

2

Foreword

are in the process of building wind turbines at many of our production facilities.
These investments are sustainable from two perspectives: the ecological and
the economic.
We support global initiatives to reinforce sustainability standards around the
world and extend our know-how. We are fully committed to the targets and
principles of the United Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water Mandate. We
support the WEF C
­ limate CEO Statement and the “We Mean Business I­nitiative.”
We believe ethics is a key characteristic of sustainability. Since its launch in
2009, the “Siemens Integrity Initiative” has implemented 55 anticorruption projects in over 20 countries, receiving so far more than US$ 70 million in support.
This initiative will continue to support organizations and projects in the process
of combating corruption.
External rankings and ratings prove that we are on the right track. For instance,
this year we were again recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as
one of the most sustainable companies in our industry. We also obtained best
possible results from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an index reflecting the
climate-protection measures implemented by companies.
And Siemens will continue to apply sustainable business practices in the future.
We are very cognizant of our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. We make
sure we contribute toward advancing society. This is our commitment to present
and future generations.
Sincerely yours,

Joe Kaeser

Dr. Roland Busch

Foreword

3

Content

Sustainability at Siemens

Facts and Figures

Annex

P. 6

P. 10

P. 34

Materiality

Reporting method

GRI G4 – key aspects and boundaries

P. 7

P. 11

P. 36

Sustainability outlook

Employees

United Nations Global Compact

P. 7

P. 14

P. 38

Sustainability management and organization

Occupational health and safety management

United Nations Water Mandate

P. 8

P. 16

P. 39

Sustainability collaborations

Research and development

Environmental Portfolio reporting principles

P. 8

P. 18

P. 43

Sustainability performance

Supply chain management

Independent assurance report

P. 20

P. 45

Distribution and customer relations

Notes and forward-looking statements

P. 21

P. 46

Siemens Environmental Portfolio

Further information and information
resources

P. 21
Environmental protection
P. 26
Compliance
P. 31
Corporate citizenship

Sustainability at Siemens

Sustainability at Siemens

For almost 170 years, we have had a clear commitment to
thinking and acting in the interest of future generations. We
believe acting responsibly is the only way to achieve a balance
between profitable long-term growth and the planet and people.
Sustainability has been anchored in our strategy for many
years and integrated into our Siemens Management model.
We are guided by sustainable business practices in our inter­
actions with external and internal stakeholders, and we “walk
the talk” within our own operations. We aim to minimize risks
for society, the environment and our company. Similarly, we
identify business opportunities to ensure we are sustainable for
the long term. We are convinced that sustainability, especially
in the sense of energy and resource efficiency, is a business
opportunity, and one worth seizing.

The process closely integrated analyses of macroeconomic
­developments; the way we respond to the five megatrends
­Demographic Change, Urbanization, Climate Change, Global­
ization and Digitalization; results from our dialogues with
­external and internal stakeholders; and assessments from
the Company ’s specialist functions. The results were then dis­
cussed with our Sustainability Board and ultimately approved
by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The following
12 principles were defined in this process:

PROFIT
>> We contribute to our customers’ competitiveness with our
products, solutions and services.
>> We partner with our customers to identify and develop
­sustainability-related business opportunities.
>> We operate an efficient and resilient supply chain through
a supplier code of conduct, risk management and capacity
building.
>> We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manage
project and reputational risks and identify business-relevant
trends.
>> We adhere to the highest compliance and anticorruption
­standards and promote integrity via the Siemens Integrity
Initiative.

PLANET
>> We enable our customers to increase energy efficiency, save
resources and reduce carbon emissions.
>> We develop our products, solutions and services based on a
life-cycle perspective and sound eco-design standards.
>> We minimize the environmental impacts of our own oper­
ations by applying environmental management programs.
With our expertise and passion, our innovative offerings, part­
nerships and local presence, we contribute to our customers’
competitiveness and to the sustainable development of societ­
ies. Advancing sustainability is a key element for our aim to be
the employer of choice.

Materiality
In regular dialogue with external and internal stakeholders,
we identify sustainability topics based on their importance for
Siemens and our stakeholders and prioritize them by mate­
riality. The prioritization shows the action areas identified as
the key levers for sustainable business success on which we
will continue to focus in the future. We conducted a compre­
hensive process to detail the priorities of “Sustainability and
Citizenship” within our “One Siemens Management model.”

6

Sustainability at Siemens

PEOPLE
>> We contribute to the sustainable development of societies
with our portfolio, local operations and thought leadership.
>> We foster long-term relationships with local societies through
Corporate Citizenship projects jointly carried out with p
­ artners.
>> We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health of our
employees.
>> We live a culture of leadership based on common values, an
innovation mindset, a people orientation and diversity.
These principles guide us in the process of adhering to our
global strategy and define the impact we have on our custom­
ers, on our suppliers, in our own operations and in the societies
we are operating in. Siemens divisions and regional entities
define their material action areas in adherence to the above
centrally defined 12 principles and in alignment with the One
Siemens Management model.

In the following sections we set out the key facts and figures
on environmental and social topics that are most material to
Siemens and significantly impact our stakeholders. These top­
ics are directly derived from the 12 principles and guided by
the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The “GRI G4 – key aspects
and boundaries” overview in the Annex illustrates how we link
our 12 principles with the key material aspects of GRI G4. All
material economic aspects are covered in the Siemens Annual
Report 2015.

Sustainability outlook
Based on the above principles, we will step up our efforts in
two specific areas in fiscal 2016 and beyond:

CO 2 NEUTRAL SIEMENS
At Siemens, we believe that taking action against climate
change is not just prudent – it’s profitable. That’s why we
have launched our “CO2 neutral Siemens” program in Septem­
ber 2015: Taking 2014 as a baseline, we plan to cut our global
carbon footprint from our own operations in half by 2020 and
make our global operations carbon neutral by 2030. The reduc­
tion of CO2 will be safeguarded by a set of activities:
>> We will invest more than € 100 million in improving energy
efficiency at our own sites over the next three years.
>> We will boost our use of distributed energy systems at our
own sites by combining wind turbines, small gas turbines,
solar panels, intelligent energy management systems and
energy storage solutions.
>> We will focus on optimizing our company fleet of about
45,000 vehicles producing roughly 300,000 metric tons of
carbon emissions per year.
>> We will buy clean power. To make up for the emissions that
cannot be avoided in the near term, we will purchase elec­
tricity from renewable sources like wind parks and “carbon
credits” from credible organizations working to reduce car­
bon around the world.

BUSINESS TO SOCIETY
Our lasting contribution to society has not only been a moral
and legal obligation for us for almost 170 years, but lies at the
center of our business activities with societies being our ulti­
mate customers.
For us, being a business to society means bringing our m
­ ission
“We make real what matters” to life in the societies we are
­operating in and in demonstrating how Siemens’ portfolio, own
operations, thought leadership activities and voluntary contri­
butions translate into sustainable societal value.

Via the electrification, automation and digitalization value chain,
all our businesses contribute significantly and measurably to
the sustainable development of societies around the globe. With
more than 348,000 employees in nearly all countries, our own
operations and supplier network provide a valuable contribu­
tion to employment, the local economy and skills d
­ evelopment,
while ensuring stringent standards with regard to health, safety,
compliance and the environment. We are committed to consult­
ing with societies and applying our thought leadership and
­domain expertise in our business activities and beyond. We drive
voluntary external activities in projects on education, environ­
mental protection, compliance and social inclusion.
In fiscal 2015, we developed methodologies on how to assess
and measure our impact on the societies we are operating in as
the outcome of two pilot projects in the Great Britain and South
Africa. In fiscal 2016, we will roll out these methodologies to
several of our key countries. In this way, we are equipping
our local teams with the necessary expertise for making stra­
tegic choices on the four elements of the Business to Society
­framework: portfolio, own operations, thought leadership and
voluntary activities.

Sustainability management and
­organization
The importance we attach to sustainability is evident from the
central position it holds within our Company’s organization, in
our programs and in the measures we execute. Efficient sus­
tainability management is a company-wide task that requires
clear structures and thorough embedding of sustainability
within our corporate culture. All our sustainability activities
are steered by the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who is a
member of our Managing Board and who chairs the Siemens
Sustainability Board (SSB), which consists of representatives
from divisions, countries and corporate functions. The SSB is
the central steering committee for sustainability at Siemens. It
meets regularly to direct our sustainability activities as part of
our corporate strategy and adopts appropriate measures and
initiatives. The Sustainability Director manages the Sustainability Office, which is responsible for driving sustainability
within Siemens and for coordinating the sustainability activ­
ities and other company-wide programs and measures. He
­directly reports to the Chief Sustainability Officer. Additionally,
sustainability is anchored across the organization by our global
network of Sustainability Managers in the various divisions,
countries and corporate units, ensuring that all measures and
initiatives are implemented.

Sustainability at Siemens

7

Sustainability collaborations
Our sustainability efforts are based on our Business Conduct
Guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework
within which we conduct our business activities. They contain
the basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and
­externally. Specific issues, such as those relating to the environ­
ment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guidelines.
The Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all companies
controlled by Siemens. We require all our suppliers to comply
with the principles of the code of conduct for Siemens suppli­
ers, which includes respect for the basic rights of employees;
strong safety, and health and environmental protection stan­
dards and zero tolerance on corruption and bribery.
Furthermore, we believe that close collaboration with stake­
holders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking sus­
tainability challenges. Maintaining an intensive dialogue with
partners along the supply chain and with external stakeholder
groups and organizations is important for us. We listen to our
stakeholders and integrate their perspectives into our busi­
ness priorities and decision-making processes. Stakeholder
engagement creates value for both stakeholders and the Com­
pany through knowledge exchange and co-creativity. It is es­
sential for our business license to operate and contributes to
the improvement of business conditions and risk reduction
on customer projects and in our own operations. Our stake­
holder relations are managed by the dedicated departments
at the corporate level. Responsibility for their strategic imple­
mentation lies within the remit of our local colleagues in the
regional entities, which ­engage with local stakeholder groups
on a ­regular basis everywhere we operate worldwide. Our key
stakeholders include, but are not limited to: customers, inves­
tors, suppliers, employees, communities, policymakers, media,
nongovernmental organizations, business organizations and
academia.

8

Sustainability at Siemens

We actively engage with leading sustainability organizations
such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop­
ment (WBCSD) and the United Nations Global Compact. We are
a member of the “Task Force on Anti-Bribery /Corruption” of the
Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. Our
activities in the World Economic Forum (WEF) include the com­
pany ’s participation in the “Pact against Corruption” initiative
and the Siemens General Council’s membership in the “Global
Agenda Council on Transparency and Anti-Corruption”.
We are committed to international standards and guidelines for
sustainability. We signed the UN Global Compact and commit­
ted to its 10 principles as well as signed the Global Compact’s
CEO Water Mandate. We signed the “Charta der Vielfalt,” too,
and are an engaged member of One Young World. We report on
our sustainability performance using the guidelines (G4) of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which aim for high transpar­
ency and comparability for corporate sustainability reporting.

Sustainability performance
Siemens has been part of the widely respected Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for 16 consecutive years. In 2015, we were
ranked, with 90 of 100 points, as one of the best companies
in the Industry Group “Capital Goods.” We also earned high
ratings on a number of other indexes and rankings, including
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). For the first time,
Siemens has achieved the highest possible score of 100 out
of 100 possible points for the transparency of its reporting on
the opportunities and risks associated with climate change. In
addition, our efforts to achieve energy efficiency and cut CO2
emissions enabled Siemens to reach the Climate A List.

Facts and Figures

Facts and Figures
Reporting method
Sustainability is a fundamental principle for us, guiding our very
actions. Our “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to
the Siemens Annual Report” supplements our reporting in the
Annual Report 2015. The reporting method provides details of
the underlying key elements on which our reporting is based.

REPORTING APPROACH
The “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to the
Siemens Annual Report” (“the Report”) describes the strategy,
orga­nization, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainability. It
supplements our reporting in the Annual Report, ­following on
from last year’s reporting. It also serves as our a
­ nnual progress
­report on implementing the United Nations CEO Water Mandate
and sums up our performance with regard to the 10 ­principles
of the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore, our Report
is guided by the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the recommendations of
the Global Compact and Transparency I­nternational regarding
anticorruption reporting. All key performance indicators of the
Environmental Portfolio are reported according to the “Environ­
mental Portfolio Reporting Principles” included in the Annex.

REVIEW PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARIES
This Report is based on activities carried out during Siemens’
fiscal 2015 (October 1, 2014 – September 30, 2015). Any excep­
tions are indicated as such. In general, our fully consolidated
companies are all covered by the Report. Here, too, possible
exceptions regarding the pool of data used are indicated. Mi­
nority equity investments are not included in our reporting.
The indicators and information reported below relate to the
Company’s continuing operations, unless indicated otherwise.
In order to ensure comparability of the details, those for the
previous year were adjusted accordingly, with any exceptions
duly indicated.

10

Facts and Figures

DATA COLLECTION
Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a
major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies through­
out the world are required to comply with local regulations
concerning the compilation and definition of performance
figures, which means that the data generated is not always
comparable. Where applicable, we point out any significant
limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a
rule, no company-wide standards exist for the information pub­
lished in the Report. This applies in particular to specific finan­
cial figures, including, for example, the revenue attributable to
the Environmental Portfolio. As a result, these figures may not be
comparable with the data published under the same or similar
designations by other companies. The data published in this
Report is collected through various internal reporting systems,
which, for the most part, are different from those applicable
to the financial information presented in our Consolidated
­Financial Statements. In particular, the standards and controls
­applied and the computer systems used during the preparation
of the data may be less comprehensive in comparison. We re­
serve the right to change our internal guidelines regarding the
inclusion of data in the Report without prior announcement.
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Report
may not add up precisely to the totals provided, and percent­
ages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REVIEW
We prepared our Report to high quality standards. Consequently,
as in previous years, we again commissioned an independent
accounting firm to conduct an assurance review of the “Sus­
tainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” chapters of this
Report to provide a limited degree of certainty. You can find
the results of the review by Ernst  &   Young GmbH Wirtschafts­
prüfungsgesellschaft in the Annex. For such limited assurance
engagements, which provide a limited degree of certainty, the
evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a rea­
sonable assurance engagement. The auditors merely confirm
that nothing has come to their attention during the review that
would cause them to believe that the information contained in
the “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” chapters
of this Report has not been prepared, in all material r­ espects, in
accordance with the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) and with regard to the Environmental Portfolio indicators
in accordance with the Environmental Portfolio Reporting Prin­
ciples described in the Annex.

Employees *

Proportion of women (as a percentage of total employees)
September 30,

People are one of Siemens’ vital strengths. Employees have
made Siemens what it is today, and their expertise, capabilities
and high level of engagement are laying the foundation for our
future success. To stay competitive, we need to continuously
win and retain the best and brightest talent worldwide. As an
employer of choice, we empower our diverse and engaged
people worldwide with a high-performance culture, encourage
life-long learning and development, offer an attractive work­
ing environment and ensure occupational health and safety.
We also believe that employee engagement is a key driver for
sustainable company performance. Since 2010, the Siemens
Global Engagement Survey has been regarded as an import­
ant management tool for measuring employee satisfaction.
In our “Vision 2020,” we set the target to achieve an approval
rating of over 75 % on a sustainable basis in the key categories
of Leadership and Diversity. In fiscal 2015, more than 260,000
Siemens employees (77 % response rate) took part in our world­
wide survey, demonstrating once again their strong commit­
ment to shape Siemens, its values and its strategy. Based on
the constantly high employee engagement and our results in
both key categories in fiscal 2015, we are confident of achieving
our ­target by fiscal 2020.
Demographic change, lifelong employability and the impact of
digitalization are Siemens’ key employee-related topics. As an
employer of choice, we train and develop our people to master
the challenges of the tough projects we are taking on for our
customers. Each project and each task is an opportunity for per­
sonal and professional growth. We are respectful, inclusive and
diverse. At Siemens, everyone has a variety of opportunities and
everyone is treated in a fair way, even when times are tough.
We flatten hierarchies and welcome individual contributions
and different ways of thinking.
Siemens employees

2015

2014

348

357

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East
(as a percentage of total employees)

61

61

Americas (as a percentage of total employees)

21

21

Asia, Australia
(as a percentage of total employees)

18

18

1

2014

Siemens

23

24

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

22

22

Americas

25

26

Asia, Australia

27

28

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

New hires were down by 3 % in the year under review. In the
same period, exits were down by 11 %. The percentage of all
Company dismissals – as share of employee exits – was 18.3 %
for the year, compared with 19.1 % the previous year. All other
variations result from changes in the basis for consolidation
and other changes.
Siemens employee hires (in thousands) 1
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Siemens

32.6

33.5

Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East

15.4

14.7

Americas

9.1

8.9

Asia, Australia

8.0

9.9

1

Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding.

2

Commonwealth of Independent States.

Women hired (as a percentage of new hires)
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Siemens

25

29

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

24

27

Americas

25

30

Asia, Australia

27

32

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

September 30,

Siemens (in thousands)

2015

Siemens employee exits (in thousands)
Fiscal year

Siemens

2015

2014

28.8

32.5

Commonwealth of Independent States.

* All figures quoted in this section refer to continuing and discontinued operations;
any ­deviations from this are indicated.

Facts and Figures

11

Employee turnover rate (in %) 1

Use of working-hour programs at Siemens (in thousands)
Fiscal year

Employee decision

2014

4.0

4.1

Part-time
Employees on leave of absence

Other reasons for exit

4.3

4.9

Total

8.3

9.1

1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits
from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.

September 30,
2015

2014

15

14

Siemens
Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60.

The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually
unchanged compared with the year before. The median age in
the year under review was 41.
Age structure in fiscal 2015 (as a percentage of total employees) 1

Siemens

< 35

35 – 44

45 – 54

> 54

31

28

26

15

Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa,
­Middle East

27

27

30

16

Americas

27

26

27

21

Asia, Australia

53

31

12

3

1

Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding.

2 Commonwealth of Independent States.

Average official weekly working hours 1

10.0

8.4

8.8

>> Diverse workforce at all levels
>> Women in leadership roles
>> Generational diversity
>> Employee networks
>> Inclusive culture
As an example, we have adapted our recruitment processes to
ensure that the preliminary selection of candidates better re­
flects the diversity of our customers and employees at all levels
and in all regions. For instance, the percentage of women in
management positions at Siemens globally has nearly doubled
since fiscal 2002, rising to 15.4 %.
Employees in management positions 1

2015

2014

39.0

39.0

Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East

37.6

37.6

Americas

41.1

41.1

Asia, Australia

41.3

41.3

1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year.
2

2014

10.0

Diversity strengthens our innovative capacity and unleashes
the potential of Siemens’ employees, thereby directly contrib­
uting to our business success. All our activities, measures and
­programs aim at leveraging the diversity in the workforce and
enhancing Siemens as an employer of choice. We strive for an
inclusive working environment that taps the maximum poten­
tial of all employees. We want to create a working environment
that is open to all people, independent of their cultural back­
ground, heritage, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity
and individual gender expressions. The focus areas are:

September 30,

Siemens

2015

DIVERSITY

Retiring within the next five years
(as a percentage of total employees) 1

1

September 30,

2015

September 30,

Siemens
Female employees in management positions
(percentage of all management positions)

2015

2014

63,000

53,300

15.4

15.6

1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsibility, plus project managers.

Commonwealth of Independent States.

The increase of employees in management positions is caused
by a broader definition of “management” introduced with a
­refined job-structure.

12

Facts and Figures

TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT
We believe that people are the key to the success of Siemens
and that attracting, developing and retaining them are the
most important activities we can engage in. We are continually
striving to hire the best people in the most effective way pos­
sible, which means we are revolutionizing the way in which
we search, engage and onboard our future workforce. We have
defined global principles, which all of our countries are apply­
ing to their recruiting activities to ensure that all candidates
globally have a quality hiring experience.
At Siemens, we consider every employee a talent. Dedicated
processes and practices are in place to ensure that our people
develop across the board.
The Performance Management Process (PMP) is a one core
­element of talent development at Siemens. PMP essentially in­
volves maintaining a continuous dialogue about expectations
regarding individual contributions and behavior as well as feed­
back on actual impact and a demonstrated ownership mindset.
At the same time, we aim to foster meritocracy. To reflect the
focus on recognizing and rewarding high performance within
Siemens, our compensation system for our top executives and
senior management worldwide includes a variable component.
Furthermore, we promote concepts such as self-reflection on
aspirations and abilities to grow into different roles and taking
ownership for career development. To continuously develop
our talents, we offer a varied portfolio of balanced people-­
development measures (on the job, people experiences and
formal learning) as well as dedicated potential development
programs.

LEARNING, LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their
competencies and qualifications. In fiscal 2015, we invested
around € 265 million in continuing education (without travel
expenses), which equals about € 758 per employee.
Siemens Global Learning Campus is responsible for managing
and offering the global learning portfolio to employees in all
countries. It ranges from courses for employees and managers,
through tailored training programs and services for groups, to
solutions for entire organizations.

In fiscal 2015, the Global Learning Campus was reaccred­
ited by the renowned European Foundation for Management
­Development (EFMD). The Corporate Learning Improvement
Process (CLIP) accreditation emphasized, as a point of excel­
lence, the creation of a globally integrated learning organiza­
tion that reaches out to all Siemens employees worldwide and
makes a significant strategic contribution to the company.
Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE) is aimed at our current
and future senior and top leaders. Targeted programs and offer­
ings are provided to help them find long-term competitive and
sustainable solutions to lead their businesses and employees.
Siemens continues to be one of Germany’s largest providers of
professional education for secondary school graduates (7,000
places for Siemens trainees and 2,700 places for trainees from
other companies). As in previous years, we again made 10 % of
our trainee positions available to young people from disadvan­
taged backgrounds.
Each year since 2012, young Europeans (approximately 30 per­
sons a year from about 20 countries) have been completing
their apprenticeships in mechatronics and electrical / electronic
engineering in Berlin. After the apprenticeships, they return to
their home countries and work in one of our local operating
companies. There is continuous growth in this field and we are
in the process of establishing similar programs in other Euro­
pean and non-European countries.
Average number of training hours per participant
per ­category 1
Fiscal year
2015

2014

SLE Training Alumni Top Management
(33 participants in fiscal 2015)

25

25

New General Management Appointees
(97 participants in fiscal 2015)

94

94

New Advanced Management Appointees
(429 participants in fiscal 2015)

66

64

New Management Appointees
(463 participants in fiscal 2015)

66

66

1 Based on mandatory participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence programs or
executive courses.

Compared with the previous fiscal year, the average number of
hours spent on training by participants in Siemens Leadership
Excellence (SLE) programs remained unchanged in fiscal 2015.
Training measures at the corporate management level are
­decided on and implemented as needed in close cooperation
with the CEO and the Company’s Managing Board.

Facts and Figures

13

SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE
Siemens established its first employee share program in Ger­
many back in 1969. Building on this successful program in Ger­
many, Siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and man­
agement participation. Today, Siemens offers approximately
97 % of its employees in 67 countries the opportunity to become
a Siemens shareholder, thus rewarding the commitment and
loyalty of employees with a participating interest in the com­
pany.
The Share Matching Plan is based on a simple principle: Em­
ployees participating in the plan will receive one Siemens share
without payment of consideration (matching share) for every
three Siemens shares bought and continuously held for the
applicable vesting period of two or three years – provided the
employee is still employed by Siemens and has not transferred
or sold the shares. The main idea of the plan has always been
to make stock ownership available to employees at all income
levels.
Siemens’ Vision 2020 sets a clear goal to increase the number
of employee shareholders from the current level of approxi­
mately 144,000 by at least 50 %. With the aim of strengthening
the participation of Siemens employees worldwide in the com­
pany ’s success, the Managing Board of Siemens AG is launch­
ing a new concept in fiscal 2015 called Siemens Profit Sharing.
The Siemens Profit Sharing aims to allow employees below
­senior management level worldwide to benefit from free Siemens
shares in the case of extraordinarily successful business years.
We are convinced that empowering employees with shares
motivates them to assume greater responsibility and helps
them identify more closely with the company they work for – a
fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of
Siemens.

EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS WITH
EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES
Fair-minded collaboration between Company management,
employees and employee representatives plays a central role at
Siemens. As one of the largest corporate employers in Germany
and worldwide, we are committed to our social responsibility
and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our employ­
ees – which already apply worldwide and are firmly anchored
in our Business Conduct Guidelines. Underscoring this commit­
ment, Siemens, the Siemens Central Works Council, the Ger­
man trade union IG Metall and the global industrial union In­
dustriALL have signed an international framework agreement
on the principles of corporate responsibility.

14

Facts and Figures

Occupational health
and safety management
Occupational health and safety management are key ele­
ments of our Company ’s sustainable strategy and an integral
part of our business processes. We therefore develop central
programs and processes that are applied locally and adapted
to the respective business needs. Occupational health and
safety management are an integral part of our Business Con­
duct Guidelines, our internal monitoring systems, and our risk
management and internal controls. In addition, occupational
safety is part of an international framework agreement be­
tween Siemens AG, the Central Works Council of Siemens AG,
IG Metall and the global union IndustriAll.
Promoting a culture of safety – In the past, occupational
safety was often characterized by focusing on technical pro­
tective measures, an approach that achieved considerable
success. We are convinced, however, that further i­ mprovement
can be achieved only through an actively practiced occupa­
tional safety culture and optimal working conditions – in
­every country and for all Siemens employees as well as those
of our contractors. Both as a company and as individuals, we
are responsible for ensuring that the working environment at
Siemens is safe at all times and for every employee. At present,
local management systems and best practices exist that we can
build on. We will achieve sustainability, however, only through
a global and consistent approach.
Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect
high safety standards from us. Safe behavior is governed not
only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but
also by the personal values of managers and employees. Our
“Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens” program, which was launched
in fiscal 2012, has been further developed and rolled out to
drive the targeted cultural change on occupational health and
safety. It contains three principles:
>> Zero incidents – it is achievable.
>> Health and safety – no compromises!
>> We take care of each other!
To align the different businesses and countries, we have devel­
oped a Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Country Concept. In ad­
dition, our businesses and countries further improve safety
at the local level through various activities according to local
needs and requirements. One example of a local activity is the
safety park in India, where Siemens and third-party project site
managers and personnel are trained with a focus on high-risk

­ ctivities. The training is conducted together with TÜV Rhein­
a
land and ends with an exam and certificate. Management
­attention is of utmost importance in fostering and improving
safety. The responsible CEO of the business concerned there­
fore demonstrates commitment by personally reporting any
work-related fatality or serious incident, its cause and the mea­
sures taken to the Siemens Managing Board.
To achieve sustainable improvement and share lessons learned
we have further strengthened our incident investigation capa­
bilities by providing professional training and support. Several
courses have already been completed.
In fiscal 2015, the overall number of fatalities was higher than
in fiscal 2014. Regrettably, we reported 12 fatalities. Of these,
four fatalities (all work related) involved contractors and
eight involved Siemens employees. The eight Siemens cases
­included four commuting accidents on the way to or from
work. In the previous year, there were three fatalities involving
contractors and four involving Siemens employees.
Promoting health – We are convinced that sustainable health
promotion among our employees will only succeed if all health-­
related measures and initiatives are consistently aligned with
the permanently changing requirements of today ’s working
environment and complement each other in a sensible man­
ner. Simply increasing the number of individual measures in
itself is not enough. A systematic approach is called for, within
which health is actively managed as a resource. Our company-­
wide program Healthy @ Siemens supports a continuous im­
provement process within health management. To encourage
implementation, we introduced the Health @ Siemens label as
a quality characteristic for sustainable health management.
Our innovative approaches in health management are already
recognized externally. Siemens Belgium received the “Healthy
Workspaces Good Practice Award” in managing stress and psy­
chosocial risk at work from the European Union.

ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE
When recording lost-time injuries (LTIs), we incorporate the
applicable national definitions for categorizing incidents as
being work related.
LTIFR employees and contractors 1
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Employees 2

0.62

0.61

Contractors 3

0.45

0.40

1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 200,000 / work
hours performed; LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count as
employees.
3

Contractors who bill by time, especially those who work on large project sites.

In order to reduce the number of accidents, we have introduced
additional business-specific actions and activities, particularly
on construction sites and in projects. We also take a very rigor­
ous approach to selecting contractor companies and have intro­
duced even more stringent occupational safety requirements.
Part of this approach is that specifically for health and safety
management we require a detailed risk assessment for every
construction site and project. For all identified hazards and the
respective risks, appropriate measures have to be implemented.
As a result of the systematic assessment process that we have
developed and introduced, a number of contractor companies
have been excluded from Siemens projects or are under review.
They will not be considered by us as potential contractors until
the identified issues have been rectified and assessment pro­
cesses have been successfully completed again.
Significant progress in enhancing the collaboration with con­
tractors and improving the safety culture was made in India.
Siemens has developed a training center with the focus on con­
struction sites to systematically qualify contractors with regard
to local and Siemens-specific requirements. Experience and
best practices in occupational health and safety aspects are sys­
tematically tracked and shared globally. In fiscal 2015, health
and safety audits focusing on high-risk activities were carried
out. For example, the Siemens internal audit department (CF A)
was assigned to conduct EHS-audits. They completed 17 audits
at divisions, including Process Industries and Drives and Wind
Power and Renewables as well as at sites such as Brande (DK),
Aalborg (DK) and Fort Madison (US).

Facts and Figures

15

OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS
The total number of cases of occupational illness relative
to the number of employees has remained at a low level for
many years. The corresponding indicator (occupational illness
­frequency rate, or OIFR) relative to 1,000,000 work hours per­
formed was 0.35 in the year under review (fiscal 2014: 0.36).
Here we only report the figures for Siemens AG. OFIR is calcu­
lated solely on the basis of cases of occupational illness recog­
nized by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association.

Research and development
Our research and development (R & D) activities are ultimately
geared to developing innovative, sustainable solutions for our
customers – and the Siemens businesses – and simultaneously
safeguarding our competitiveness. For these reasons, we focus
in particular on
>> enabling energy supplies that are also economically sus­
tainable;
>> further enhancing efficiency in the generation of renewable
and conventional power and minimizing losses during power
transmission;
>> finding novel solutions for smart grids and for the storage of
energy from renewable sources with irregular availability;
>> promoting the efficient utilization of energy, especially in
building technology, industry and transportation – e.g.,
through highly efficient drives for production facilities or for
local and long-distance trains;
>> creating the highly flexible, connected factories of tomorrow
using advanced automation and digitalization technologies;
>> turning unstructured data into value-adding information –
e.g., when providing services such as preventive mainte­
nance;
>> advancing the integration of medical imaging technology, in
vitro diagnostics and IT for medical engineering to support
achievement of improved patient outcomes.
Beyond these points of focus, we recognize how important
highly sophisticated software solutions are for all the fields of
business in which Siemens is active. R & D activities are carried
out by our businesses as well as our Corporate Technology (CT)
department.

16

Facts and Figures

Corporate Technology is both a creative driver of disruptive
innovations and a partner to the Siemens businesses. Their
R & D activities are focused on the company ’s core activities in
the fields of electrification, automation and digitalization. In
many research projects, CT works closely with scholars from
leading universities and research institutions. These partner­
ships, along with a close collaboration with start-ups, are an
important part of Siemens’ open innovation concept, which is
designed to make the company even more innovative.
In fiscal 2015, we reported research and development expenses
of € 4.5 billion, compared with € 4.0­ billion in fiscal 2014. The
­resulting R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses
and revenue, was 5.9 %, thus above the R & D intensity of 5.6 %
in fiscal 2014. As of September 30, 2015, Siemens held approx­
imately 56,200 granted patents worldwide in its continuing
operations. As of September 30, 2014, it held approximately
56,100 granted patents. On average, we had 32,100 R & D em­
ployees in fiscal 2015.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN OUR BUSINESSES
R & D at the Power and Gas Division concentrates on develop­
ing products and solutions for enhancing efficiency, flexibility
and economy in power generation and in the oil and gas indus­
try. These products and solutions include turbomachinery – pri­
marily high-performance, low-emission gas turbines for single
operation or for combined cycle power plants – and compressor
solutions for various process industries. The Division’s tech­
nology initiative started in fiscal 2015 is aimed at intensifying
R & D in innovative materials, advanced manufacturing methods
and plant optimization. Along with promoting digitalization in
overall product life cycles, Power and Gas is on track ­preparing
for changing energy markets and their increasingly diversified
centralized and decentralized structures.
At Siemens’ Wind Power and Renewables Division, our R & D
efforts are focused on innovative products and solutions that
allow us to take the lead in performance, improve our compet­
itiveness and build a stronger business case to present to our
customers. This includes finding ways to more intelligently
monitor and analyze turbine conditions and smart diagnostic
services. Our R & D efforts also focus on digitalization. At our
remote diagnostics center in Brande, Denmark, we collect digital
data from nearly 10,000 turbines in more than 30 countries: a
total of more than 24 million data sets annually. We use this
data to provide value for our customers: In 85 % of cases, prob­
lems can be corrected and turbines restarted without the need
to send out a service team.

The R & D activities of our Energy Management Division focus
on preparing our portfolio for changes on all voltage levels in
the world of electricity. The increasing infeed of renewable
energy to power grids requires that those grids become more
flexible and efficient, particularly with distributed genera­
tion on the rise. The digitalization of future grids will enable
intelligent grid operation and data-driven services. Cost-out
programs and optimization of our footprint are improving the
competitiveness of our product portfolio on global markets.
Our innovations are centered on power electronics, digitaliza­
tion or grid stabilization. The full integration of energy supply
systems with process automation is a core portfolio element for
industrial applications and infrastructures.
R & D work at the Building Technologies Division focuses on
optimizing comfort, operational and energy efficiency in build­
ings and infrastructures, protecting against fire and security
hazards, and minimizing related risks. We aim to create a port­
folio of products and services, ranging from the field level to
the cloud, based on open standards wherever possible. This
includes data-based services for new ways of optimizing energy
consumption, easily scalable and reasonably priced services,
a new and harmonized system landscape with particularly
­effective integration of electrical consumption, fire detection
and HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) systems, and
a complete range of field-level products tailored specifically to
growing markets.
The Mobility Division’s R & D strategy addresses customers’
demand for maximum availability, high throughput and en­
hanced passenger experience. Although there is a growing
need for mobility worldwide, possibilities for building new roads
and railways are limited. Meeting the demand for mobility re­
quires intelligent solutions that make transport more efficient,
safe and environmentally friendly. Reflecting this, Mobility ’s
R & D activities strongly emphasize digitalization in develop­
ing state-of-the art rail vehicles, automation solutions for rail
and road traffic, and rail electrification systems. Most of these
goals can be achieved only with intelligent IT solutions such as
WLAN-based control systems for driverless and conductorless
metro train operation, decentralized wayside architecture for
rail automation, cloud-based product solutions, and Integrated
Mobility Platforms that intelligently network passengers, mo­
bility service providers and traffic management centers.

One of the R & D priorities at the Digital Factory Division is the
Digital Enterprise Software Suite. Using Teamcenter software
for central data management, the Digital Enterprise Software
Suite creates a seamless data connection across the entire
value chain – from product design to production planning and
setup all the way to real production and subsequent service.
Innovative data services are another field of research: Siemens
has already developed an open cloud solution for analyzing
large datasets in industry. Data-based services such as pre­
dictive maintenance, asset and energy data management can
be hosted on this platform. Control of Hybrid Manufacturing
is another example: Additive manufacturing (e.g., 3D printing)
is combined with subtractive procedures (e.g., milling) in one
machine to ensure that components or products with a high
degree of individualization can be manufactured quickly and
efficiently.
The R & D strategy of the Process Industries and Drives Divi­
sion is focusing on the digitalization of crucial portfolio elements
across the complete life cycle of processing plants. Innovative
technologies for sensors, actuators, communications and sim­
ulations are prerequisites for end-to-end digitalization and
automation and require, for example, consistent engineering,
optimized and more efficient processes, and intelligent and
predictive service concepts. The Division is also developing
technologies for the digital oil field and the electric propeller
pod drive. Our gears portfolio will be expanded and gears will
be integrated into a digitalized condition-monitoring and con­
trolling system while increasing energy efficiency, reducing
material costs and further cutting emissions.
The R & D activities of our Healthcare business are directed
­toward our growth fields in therapy, molecular diagnostics and
services. We want to tap the full potential of imaging solutions
in therapy and to establish a closer connection between diag­
nostics and therapy in cardiology, interventional clinical disci­
plines, surgery and radiation oncology. Strategic partnerships
are an essential part of our strategy to reach this goal. Expand­
ing our innovation map beyond our established portfolio and
investing in new ideas will help us tap new business fields. As
an example, we will drive our activities in the highly dynamic
growth field of molecular diagnostics. We will expand our ser­
vices business beyond product-related services by adding a dig­
ital services portfolio and increasing enterprise transformation
services to help customers in their transition to value-based
care within more and more provider organizations across geo­
graphical borders.

Facts and Figures

17

Supply chain management

IDENTIFYING RISKS AND IMPLEMENTING
MEASURES FOR IMPROVEMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES

Due to our very large and widely spread supplier network – we
procure from some 90,000 suppliers in over 160 countries – it
is not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same ex­
tent by auditing them on site. We have therefore established
a risk-based system to systematically identify potential risks in
our supply chain. This system consists of sustainability self-as­
sessments by suppliers, risk evaluations conducted by our pur­
chasing departments, sustainability questions within supplier
quality audits and sustainability audits by external auditors.

The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at
Siemens is to provide a substantial and sustainable value con­
tribution for the success of our businesses. The four elements
of this value contribution include:
>> Productivity
>> Quality
>> Availability
>> Innovation

Sustainability self-assessments 1

As such, the objectives clearly go beyond cost savings alone.
In fiscal 2015, Siemens’ purchasing volume amounted to ap­
proximately € 38 billion, which equaled roughly half of our to­
tal revenue. Based on the priorities of the Siemens divisions,
the Siemens Procurement Council defined several key levers to
achieve the SCM value contribution in alignment with Vision
2020. With the reorganization of the SCM function concluded
in 2015, a strong focus will be on the ratio output to input – i.e.,
the financial contribution of the SCM functions versus its cost
of organization.
All purchasing activities are being executed within the limita­
tions of our sustainability requirements. They are the guiding
principles for our supply chain management and an integral
part of all relevant supplier management processes – such as
supplier selection, supplier qualification and evaluation, and
supplier development.

Fiscal year
Number

2015

Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East

940

2014

549

Americas

543

423

Asia, Australia

2,025

1,162

Total

3,508

2,134
Fiscal year

Results

2015

2014

2,577

1,464

Category “yellow” (minor deviations) 3

436

342

Category “red” (suspicion of serious deviations) 3

495

328

3,508

2,134

Category “green” (no deviations)

Total

1 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD states with a purchasing
volume > € 50,000 p.a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under
review.
2

Commonwealth of Independent States.

3 Clarification of the situation by the designated buyer, agreement on corrective
measures within a defined period of time or completion of an external
­sustainability audit.

REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS
We require all our suppliers to comply with the principles of our
“Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third-Party Inter­
mediaries”, among which include, besides others, “respect
for the basic rights of employees,” strong “health and safety”
and “environmental protection” standards, and as well as zero-­
tolerance on “corruption and bribery”. The Code of Conduct is
based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and re­
flects the content of our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines.

The sustainability self-assessments are, as part of the Siemens
supplier qualification process, under continuous review in or­
der to meet the latest requirements. Besides the qualification
of new suppliers, our existing suppliers are periodically re-qual­
ified in accordance with our supplier qualification process. This
three-year-modus leads to a substantial increase in sustainabil­
ity self-assessments compared with fiscal 2014.
Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions

In fiscal 2015, we updated our Code of Conduct and included
additional requirements on “fair competition, antitrust laws
and intellectual property rights,” a chapter on “conflicts of in­
terest” and the avoidance of “conflict minerals.” By doing so,
we managed to harmonize our requirements for our Suppliers
and our Third-Party Intermediaries with in one Code of Conduct.

Fiscal year
Number

2015

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

463

443

Americas

172

191

Asia, Australia

346

237

Total

981

871

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

18

Facts and Figures

2014

Since late fiscal 2013, we increased the number of supplier
quality audits with integrated sustainability questions due
to a modification of the audit procedure. We now assess sus­
tainability in all supplier quality audits as part of the modified
procedure. The strongest detection tool to review our suppliers’
sustainability performance is an external sustainability audit.
It is conducted by one of our audit partners. As a quintessen­
tial e
­ lement of our risk-based approach, we use this tool as a
control mechanism for higher risk suppliers. In fiscal 2015, the
number of external sustainability audits remained stable.

In the event of substantial deviations or an unwillingness to
implement measures for improvement, we exclude the suppli­
ers from any business with Siemens. To be faster and more
effective in reacting to major breaches of the Code of ­Conduct
requirements – e.g., proven child labor issues – we have
­implemented the process of a “Central Warning Message,”
which again was tightened in fiscal 2015: All local instances of
blocked suppliers now have to be reported to Corporate SCM,
where the necessity of a worldwide blocking is discussed and
decided centrally. It allows us to block suppliers for all Siemens
organizations worldwide in the short term.

External sustainability audits
Fiscal year
Number

2015

2014

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

9

9

Americas

1

7

Asia, Australia

40

33

Total

50

49
Fiscal year

Agreed improvement measures 2

2015

2014

Legal compliance /prohibition
of corruption and bribery

136

203

Respect for the basic human rights of employees

357

331

35

24

Health and safety of employees

388

445

Environmental protection

170

44

56

67

1,142

1,114

Prohibition of child labor

Supply chain
Total
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations
from the Code of Conduct or to structural improvements to management systems
and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier.

If deviations from our requirements are identified in our sus­
tainability self-assessments or different audits, they must be
remedied by the suppliers in question within a reasonable
­period of time. Besides follow-up audits handled by our exter­
nal audit partners, the responsible procurement units also dis­
cuss the corrective actions defined during our audits directly
with the respective suppliers.
In all we do, we are guided by the principles of developing our
suppliers in close partnership and building up their compe­
tencies for the long term. Deviations identified in the audits
mainly relate to structural deficiencies in management sys­
tems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the
supplier. This includes, for instance, measures to effectively
ensure occupational health and safety and prevent corruption
and bribery. Serious deviations, such as in the areas of “health
and safety for employees,” were identified at five suppliers but
were corrected by the set deadline.

Since fiscal 2012, we have been continuously working on the
requirements for occupational health and safety standards
for suppliers at our project construction sites. Specifically for
the health and safety management systems, we require a
­detailed risk assessment for every site, an appraisal of the risks
identified and measures to minimize them. In fiscal 2015, we
promoted specially designed health and safety audits in our
procurement organizations worldwide: The 12 largest coun­
tries identified their contractor business and their need to
­audit contractors to minimize health and safety risks. For fiscal
2016, Corporate SCM, together with the Siemens divisions and
their local organizations, agreed on specific audit targets that
include occupational health and safety audits at our project
construction sites.

KNOW-HOW TRANSFER AND CAPACITY BUILDING
We continue to promote our strategy and belief that our
suppliers’ commitment to complying with our sustainabil­
ity principles is most effective when it is based on their own
convictions. The underlying key is to build up our suppliers’
competency levels, while intensifying their knowledge of sus­
tainability. In support of this, we updated our “Code of Conduct
brochure” in 2015, which is available in both an electronic and
print version. In addition to in-person meetings, we support
our suppliers with an Internet-based information and training
platform available free of charge to all suppliers. Currently, we
are updating our respective “Web-Based Training,” which will
be published in fiscal 2016.
On top of that, sustainability is an integral part of the compa­
ny-wide training programs for buyers. Moreover, all employees
with purchasing responsibility are obligated to take part in
intranet-based training on the subject of “Sustainability in the
Supply Chain”.

Facts and Figures

19

RESOURCE EFFICIENCY, CLIMATE PROTECTION
AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE
SUPPLY CHAIN
As part of CDP reporting, we collect and publish data on our
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) caused by purchased
products and services.
We work to minimize the environmental impact within our
­logistics and transport network. To this end, a corporate tutorial
provides our logistics employees with all the necessary infor­
mation and tools to not only create and optimize sustainable
logistics networks, but also design transport solutions within
projects. The measures we have initiated include using carriers
with modern fleets, optimizing our logistics networks, ensur­
ing the contractual commitment of service providers to improve
efficiency and bringing about modal shifts, for example, from
air freight to sea or road freight to rail.
We continuously adapt our internal supply chain processes to
meet new regulatory requirements such as the European Union
Timber Regulation and the “conflict minerals rule,” which is
mandatory for many of our customers in the United States.
Both regulations require an in-depth transparency of the sev­
eral tiers of our supply chain.
Siemens is aware of the challenging situation whereby prod­
ucts and components purchased from suppliers may contain
minerals originating from conflict-affected countries. We there­
fore continue to pursue our Conflict Minerals policy, rolling out
a uniform process to determine the use, source and origin of
conflict minerals in our supply chain. We cooperate closely
with our direct suppliers to support the process of carrying out
these steps. Where necessary, we work with suppliers in order
to mitigate risks and perform additional due diligence so that
we can continue to source responsibly, building on established
management processes.
Siemens has actively supported the “OECD Due Diligence Guid­
ance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-­
Affected and High-Risk Areas” and will continue to do so as a
pilot member in the initiative to develop the respective due
­diligence processes, expressly recognizing a risk-based due
diligence in the mineral supply chain. We also support industry-­
wide initiatives such as the “Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative.”

20

Facts and Figures

Distribution and customer relations
Our divisions have global responsibility for their business, sales
and results. They are able to support customers around the
world directly from their respective headquarters, especially for
large contracts and projects. However, most of our customers
are small and medium-sized companies and organizations that
require local support. To address local business opportunities
with them, we are able to draw on a large global sales force
steered by our regional companies. They are responsible for
serving our customers in the respective countries, leveraging
our global network of market partners like consultants, distrib­
utors, integrators, EPCs and machine builders. We are currently
selling products and services in almost every country in the
world.
Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our longterm success. We employ a structured key account manage­
ment (KAM) approach throughout the Company to take care of
our key customers. Our key account managers continuously de­
velop and maintain relationships with them over the long term.
This approach is supplemented by our Executive Relationship
Program. In this program, members of the Company ’s Execu­
tive Management stay in direct contact with selected custom­
ers and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize
Siemens with their needs.
Our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction
of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satis­
faction in every unit of the Company using the Net Promoter
Score (NPS). This internationally recognized and commonly ap­
plied managerial performance indicator, which we d
­ etermine
annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer surveys,
measures the referral rate of our customers. The NPS for fiscal
2015 was based on the results of around 25,000 interviews,
with customer representatives having been asked for their
opinion regarding Siemens in about 100 countries and in
42 survey languages. In fiscal 2015, our company-wide NPS
once again increased compared to the previous fiscal year.
We closely cooperate with well-known universities. This pro­
vides access to top-rate knowledge as a basis for continuously
developing our go-to-market approach.

Siemens Environmental Portfolio
The Siemens Environmental Portfolio is part of Siemens' re­
sponse to global challenges such as climate change, scarcity
of natural resources and environmental pollution. The Environ­
mental Portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and
services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that meet one of
our selection criteria, namely energy efficiency and renewable
energy. These elements reduce impact on the environment and
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (de­
fined together in the following as carbon dioxide emissions),
which are responsible for climate change. The reduced level
of impact is measured by carrying out comparisons with refer­
ence solutions (baselines).
With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other
things, to help our customers to reduce their carbon dioxide
footprint, cut their energy costs and improve their profitabil­
ity through an increase in their productivity. In addition to its
environmental benefits, our Environmental Portfolio enables
us to compete successfully in attractive markets and generate
profitable growth underlining Siemens’ strategic focus on tech­
nologies for energy efficiency and climate and environmental
protection. For fiscal 2015, about three-quarters of the revenue
from our Environmental Portfolio was generated from products
and solutions for energy efficiency.

The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute the most
to the total reduction of carbon dioxide emissions at our cus­
tomers are combined cycle power plants (CCPP), power plant
modernization and upgrade activities, power generation from
wind power, frequency converters and high-voltage direct cur­
rent (HVDC) power transmission systems.
Including revenue from newly developed and additionally qual­
ified Environmental Portfolio elements and excluding revenue
from elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria,
revenue from continuing operations relating to the Environ­
mental Portfolio in the current year amounted to € 32.7 billion,
exceeding the comparable revenue of € 31.5 billion from fiscal
2014. This means that in fiscal 2015 our Environmental Portfolio
accounted for 43 % of our revenue from continuing operations.
Furthermore, with our Siemens Environmental Portfolio ele­
ments installed in fiscal 2015, we helped our customers reduce
their emissions by a further 58 million metric tons of carbon
dioxide. With the total of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio
elements installed at customer locations since the beginning
of fiscal 2002 and remain in use today, we reduced accumu­
lated annual customer carbon dioxide emissions by 487 million
metric tons in fiscal 2015.
To learn more about the Siemens Environmental Portfolio,
please visit:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ENVIRONMENTALPORTFOLIO

Key performance indicators
Fiscal year
2015

2014 1

Revenue generated by the Siemens Environmental
Portfolio (continuing operations, in billions of €)

32.7

31.5

Annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide
emissions generated by elements from the
Siemens Environmental Portfolio newly installed
in the reporting year (continuing operations,
in millions of metric tons)

58

57

487

428

Accumulated annual customer reductions
of ­carbon dioxide emissions generated by
­elements from the Siemens Environmental
­Portfolio within the reporting year (continuing
operations, in millions of metric tons)

1 Prior year numbers were adjusted to reflect the deletion of the environmental
technologies selection criteria in order to ensure year-on-year comparability.

Environmental protection
To respond to today ’s global ecological challenges responsibly,
Siemens has installed a comprehensive EHS (Environmental
protection, Health management and Safety) management sys­
tem. The process requirements of this management system help
our operating units to comply with the applicable laws, regu­
lations and customer requirements; fully satisfy our corporate
requirements; and achieve our Siemens-wide environmental
targets. The environmental protection management system
requires our relevant production and office sites to implement
an environmental management system that fulfills the require­
ments of the internationally recognized ISO 14001 standard as
well as our own internal standard, known as “Specifications on
environmentally compatible product and system design.” This
internal standard defines requirements to reduce the environ­
mental impact of our products and systems during the produc­
tion, use and disposal phase and forms an integral part of our
business processes. We conduct regular internal reviews of our
environmental performance and progress in order to create a
cycle of continuous improvement.

Facts and Figures

21

Siemens aims to improve energy and resource efficiency, fulfill
growing international requirements with regard to environmental protection, increase customer benefits and proactively
strengthen our position as a sustainable company. To continuously support this approach, the programs “Serve the Environment” (StE) for industrial environmental protection and “Product Eco Excellence” (PrEE) for product-related environmental
protection were reconfirmed in 2014 and extended to 2020. As
of fiscal 2016, we also intend to start the process of cutting our
own CO2 emissions by 50 % as early as fiscal 2020, with the ultimate aim of being carbon neutral by 2030. As Siemens plans to
invest € 100 million globally in energy-efficiency measures for
its major plants within the next three years, this will also considerably support the StE energy-efficiency target and enhance
carbon efficiency. We monitor the success of our programs using corporate-wide indicators:
Indicators (in %)
Fiscal year
2015

Energy efficiency improvement compared with baseline
in fiscal 2014 1, 2

– 1.0

Waste efficiency improvement compared with baseline
in ­fiscal 2014 1

– 2.0

Waste for disposal reduction compared with baseline
in ­fiscal 2014

6.1

Carbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement
­compared with baseline in fiscal 2014 1

1.1

In the first year of continuing StE applying the new metric and
compared with the baseline of fiscal 2014, the decrease in revenue adjusted for currency translations and portfolio effects of
1.3 % had a negative impact on our efficiency KPIs, although we
were able to reduce total energy use and CO2 emissions from
energy use on a portfolio-adjusted basis. Waste production in
fiscal 2015, on the other hand, also increased due to improved
awareness and waste reporting as a result of our worldwide
waste training campaign during fiscal 2015.
With regard to efficiency improvements from the last StE
program period from 2010 to 2014 (energy efficiency: +11 %,
CO2 efficiency: +20 %, waste efficiency: +12 %, and reduction
of waste for disposal: +8 %), we can see that overall efficiency
improvements since the start of the StE program are still at a
overall high level and, as far as CO2 efficiency is concerned,
even increasing. In view of these efficiency improvements to
date, our objectives for 2020 are certainly achievable, and the
new € 100 million energy-efficiency budget, combined with
other initiatives to reach our new carbon targets, will contribute to this.

INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optimizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. With the reconfirmed program “Serve the Environment,” we are committed
to the following Siemens-wide main targets in the period from
fiscal 2014 to 2020:

1 Adjusted for currency translations and portfolio effects.
2 Indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to the primary fuels
­consumed in generating the energy used at our sites and the amount of
­energy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed.

We calculate environmental performance in industrial environmental protection on a portfolio-adjusted basis equivalent
to the adjustment used to calculate the comparable revenue
change as stated in the annual report. Revenue change in this
context means the change of revenue from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015 excluding currency translations and portfolio effects.
This portfolio adjustment procedure for revenue was accordingly used for the environmental parameters of waste, energy
and CO2 from energy use. The approach therefore enables us
to monitor and compare our environmental performance over
time, regardless of acquisitions and disposals from year to year,
and closely relates environmental performance to business
performance.

22

Facts and Figures

>> Continue our systematic effort to improve energy efficiency
and carbon dioxide efficiency
>> Improve waste efficiency
>> Reduce waste for disposal
To continue the StE program, energy and waste efficiency
­aspects will be integrated into our supply chain. Air pollution
control will be considered holistically, taking into account
the local air emission situation at our production plants and
offices. Climate-change-inducing impacts of water use in our
businesses will also be integrated.

Reporting on environmental factors and collecting environmental data
In fiscal 2015, we used our environmental information ­system
to analyze 307 reports from sites in all relevant countries where
defined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such
as energy use, resource consumption and emissions within
environmental management. To measure and monitor our
­environmental impact, we use absolute values such as energy
consumption in gigajoules. We report environmental data for
continuing operations. Extrapolation to 100 % was applied
to reflect complete consumption in our figures. Overall, the
­extrapolation was significant only for primary energy, with
14 %, and water and waste­w ater, with 10 %, in the figures
­reported. We monitor our environmental impact for all office
and production sites of environmental relevance using environ­
mental data gathered quarterly.

Environmental management system
All our locations have an environmental management system
in place; 268 of them are also certified in accordance with
ISO 14001. The majority of these, 264 sites, are externally cer­
tified, while four have been audited and certified by Siemens
internal auditors. The decision as to whether a unit has its en­
vironmental management system certified in accordance with
ISO 14001 is made by the environmental protection executives
of the businesses and countries in close consultation with the
environmental protection officers. The requirements of the new
ISO 14001:2015 standard were introduced into our management
processes. A total of 28 Siemens locations have implemented
an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001,
and further locations are in the process of implementation. To
implement the EU Energy Efficiency Directive EED (2012 / 27 /EU),
a European-wide approach has been developed taking full ad­
vantage of our own energy services.

Energy consumption

with the previous year, mostly due to newly acquired business
­activities, ­increased production programs at some Power and
Gas sites and the implementation of a decentralized energy
supply in the form of combined heat and power generation.
Secondary energy (1,000 gigajoules)
Fiscal year

Electricity
District heating
Total

2015

2014

8,655

8,613

2,015

2,075

10,670

10,688

Electricity consumption remained at the same level. Imple­
mented efficiency measures helped to partially offset the im­
pact of the high demand for cooling in Europe and the United
States during last summer, newly acquired business activities
and a slightly lower workload. The consumption of district
heating decreased, mostly due to the shorter heating period in
Europe compared with previous years.
In order to use energy efficiently, the Siemens Energy Efficiency
Program continued in fiscal 2015. Energy-saving projects have
been carried out and energy management systems are being
further implemented at energy-intensive locations. For exam­
ple at Process Industries and Drives and Digital Factory, five
sites reduced their energy consumption and now save collec­
tively 32,000 MWh of energy per year. This means a reduction
of almost 6,000 tons of CO2 emissions.
In addition to energy consumption at the locations reported
above, the energy consumed by the Company’s business vehi­
cles is recorded centrally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles and
trucks owned by Siemens are grouped together for this pur­
pose. In fiscal 2015, the company fleet consumed fuel with an
energy content of around 4.3 million gigajoules.

Primary energy (1,000 gigajoules) 1
Fiscal year

Natural gas / liquid petroleum gas
Fuel oil, coal, gasoline /diesel
Total

2015

2014

4,848

4,557

403
5,252

414
4,971

1 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding.

In fiscal 2015, total consumption of natural and liquid petro­
leum gases increased by 6 %. The consumption of other ­fossil
fuels plays less of a role compared with gas consumption and
has decreased by 3 %. In particular, there was a reduction in
the consumption of on-site car fuels and fuel oil. Overall,
­total p
­ rimary energy consumption increased by 6 % compared

Greenhouse gas emissions
Our greenhouse gas balance is made up of the total emissions
at our locations and the emissions generated by company
vehicles and business travel. We report our greenhouse gas
emissions on the basis of the Corporate Standard of the Green­
house Gas Protocol of the World Resource Institute and of the
World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Direct
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the
Company’s ownership or under its control. Indirect greenhouse
gas emissions (Scope 2) refer to the consumption of purchased
electrical energy and district heating. Business travel is reported
in Scope 3 because it is based on the use of services and vehi­
cles provided by external companies.

Facts and Figures

23

Greenhouse gas emissions (in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents)
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Scope 1

845

876

Scope 2

1,181

1,217

Sum Scope 1 and 2

2,026

2,093

378

393

Scope 3 1
1

Emissions from travel (flights, rail, rental cars).

Distribution of greenhouse gas emissions (in %)
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Electricity and district heating

49

49

Natural gas, liquid petroleum gas,
heating oil, fuels

26

24

Other Kyoto gases 1
Business travel
1

Emissions of volatile organic carbon decreased due to im­
proved training and monitoring VOC use. The volume of emis­
sions of ozone-depleting substances rose from 0.13 to 0.26
tons of R11 equivalents. The reasons for this increase were one
major leakage and improved reporting performance. Overall,
we see growing awareness with respect to balancing emissions
and implementing phase-out plans for a step-by-step substitu­
tion, especially for the still often used R22.

9

11

16

16

This includes technical CO2, SF6, HFC, PFC, CH4 and N2O.

Direct greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 4 %.
This is mainly due to reduced other Kyoto gases, especially sul­
fur hexafluoride (SF6). Electricity and district heating emissions
decreased by 3 % due to lower consumption of district heating
and purchasing of green electricity. It was possible to reduce
emissions from business travel by 4 %, as emissions from flights
and train travel have in particular been reduced. In total, green­
house gas emissions decreased by 3 % year on year.

In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical com­
bustion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, obtaining
a figure of 165 metric tons for environmentally relevant loca­
tions in the year under review. The figure includes nitrogen
oxides released during the incineration of fuels reported in the
section on primary energy.

Waste
The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type
of waste and its method of disposal. We differentiate between
hazardous and nonhazardous waste. These two groups are fur­
ther divided into recyclable waste and waste for disposal. We
report waste from construction or demolition work separately
because this kind of waste material arises independently of
production.
Waste (in 1,000 metric tons)
Fiscal year

Nonhazardous waste
Hazardous waste

2015

2014

331

326

26

26

Atmospheric pollutant emissions

Construction waste

168

211

Other industrial emissions into the atmosphere are also rel­
evant in terms of environmental protection. Volatile organic
compounds (VOC) contribute to the formation of ozone close
to the earth’s surface and are responsible for what is known as
summer smog. We use these organic compounds as solvents
in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes and for
surface cleaning. We also monitor the use of ozone-depleting
substances (ODS) and comply with the Montreal Protocol, an
international convention on the protection of the ozone layer,
as well as with country-specific legislation.

Total

524

563

Year on year, nonhazardous waste increased by 2 %. Hazardous
waste remained at the prior year's level. Overall, the quantity
of waste (including construction waste) decreased by 7 %. The
decreased volume of construction waste in comparison with
fiscal 2014 was due to reduced construction measures.
Recycling (in %, including construction waste)

Atmospheric pollutant emissions (in metric tons)

Fiscal year
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Volatile organic compounds

818

875

Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons
of R11 equivalent 1

0.26

0.13

1

24

R11 equivalent measures ozone-depletion potential.

Facts and Figures

Share of recycling in total waste

2015

2014

91

86

The waste recycling rate was 91 %, 5 % higher than in fiscal 2014.
This is due to the higher proportion of recycling waste in non­
hazardous wastes and a marked decrease in disposal waste.

Water and wastewater

By 2020, the Product Eco Excellence Program will:

Water consumption (in million cubic meters) 1
Fiscal year

Water consumption

2015

2014

7.63

7.74

1 
Does not include 20.69 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from groundwater
and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but warmed.

For the last two years, Siemens water consumption has re­
mained stable.
Wastewater (in million cubic meters) 1
Fiscal year

Cooling water

2015

2014

0.49

0.45

Wastewater from employee facilities

4.88

5.09

Wastewater from manufacturing processes (total)

0.75

0.78

Other (incl. losses)

1.43

1.29

Total

7.55

7.61

1 
Does not include 20.69 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from groundwater
and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but warmed.

Environment-related incidents and penalties
In the year under review, we recorded two environment-re­
lated incidents and a small number of hydraulic oil spillages.
These are occurrences that require the authorities to be noti­
fied – notifiable incidents – or that had an external impact on
the environment. Both occurrences were due to minor noncon­
formances with waste regulations that had no environmental
­impact. Total fines from penalties in the year under review
were insig­nificant.

PRODUCT-RELATED ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
With respect to product-related environmental protection,
Siemens strives to continuously and comprehensively improve
the overall environmental performance of its products and
systems. The confirmed “Product Eco Excellence” program
therefore aims to generate transparency, responds to market
developments and delivers added value for the customer. To
this end, our program is focused on materials and components,
product environmental assessments and increased material-­
related resource efficiency. Our program supports operational
units in taking future market and customer requirements into
consideration as well as regulatory developments. At the same
time, communication about the program increases employee
and stakeholder environmental awareness.

>> Implement automated data collection and processing for
declarable substances to increase transparency on substances
in our products. This is the prerequisite for further proactive
substitution activities to address future statutory require­
ments and customer demands.
>> Improve the coverage of LCAs (Life-Cycle Assessments) and
EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations), as we consider
the availability of product-related environmental information
an important basis for future legal and customer require­
ments such as Product Environmental Footprinting.
>> Reduce critical materials being used in Siemens products
through the support of a material assessment methodology.
The overall target of the program module is the reduction of
critical material purchasing volumes.
To achieve these objectives, several tools will be developed by
Siemens in the framework of the continued environmental pro­
gram, e.g., a map of evaluated substance risks and evaluated
substitutes, quality check for substance declarations, enhanced
EPD guidance (including service and supplier aspects), tools and
training for critical material assessment to support the process
of reducing or substituting substances, enhanced communi­
cation to increase awareness of critical materials and environ­
mental impact assessments.

Life-cycle thinking
At Siemens, closing material loops (cradle to cradle) is increas­
ingly important for resource conservation in product develop­
ment. Based on compulsory requirements, which are defined
and continuously enhanced in our internal environmental
standard “Specifications on environmentally compatible prod­
uct and system design,” we support the integration and con­
sideration of these environmental aspects of our products and
systems during the development, production, use and disposal
phases. For this reason, our internal environmental standard
closes the information loop between the end of life of one
product and the development phase of a new product for our
product designers. It means that by reusing, refurbishing or
recycling products, components or materials, they go through
more than just one life cycle, which make a substantial con­
tribution to protecting the environment. In this context, the
use of critical substances in an electronic product can greatly
impact the product’s recyclability. As far as technically feasible,
Siemens avoids the use of all LoDS-listed substances (List of
Declarable Substances) in its products worldwide, thereby ex­
ceeding existing statutory requirements.

Facts and Figures

25

During the supplier qualification process, new suppliers must
commit to declaring substances listed on the LoDS. These sub­
stance declaration requirements are mandatory for our suppliers
and are included in procurement and project contracts. This
means that our suppliers must notify us if their products and
components contain declarable substances and must provide us
with the relevant detailed information. To make an easy-to-use
method with high data quality readily available, Siemens relies
on an Internet-hosted database in which our suppliers declare
the substances they use in their products.

The current reporting period shows continuous high coverage
of businesses with LCAs (Screening and Full-Scale) and EPDs.
Compared with the figures for fiscal 2014 in last year’s report,
the ones reported for fiscal 2014 in this year are slightly dif­
ferent due to organizational changes (Sector vs. Division) and
minor corrections of prior year data.
Life-cycle assessments and environmental product declarations
(percentage of revenue covered) 1
Fiscal year
2015

Additionally using a critical material assessment method­
ology developed by Siemens, we help our product designers to
evaluate potential critical materials (ecological or toxicological
effects or possible future scarcity) and support decisions for
avoiding or reducing particular materials.

69

69

Screening LCAs

50

52

EPD

70

70

1 We consider the revenue of a Business Unit in relation to Siemens revenue once we
have carried out at least one “Full-scale LCA,” “Screening LCA,” or “EPD” for their
products or systems. No product-related coverage is calculated.

At the end of the life cycle, the handling or disposal of used
electrical and electronic equipment entails much more than
collecting and recycling old devices. It is therefore important
to have an adequate return and recycling system in place for
such devices or even to run a refurbishing process for complete
systems as demonstrated by our Healthcare activities.

The organizational changes have also led to an increased
depth in the detail of our investigation into some businesses.
A ­revision of data took place at the same time. With our product-­
related environmental program, we aim to increase our LCA
and EPD investigations in the future.

Life-cycle assessments and environmental
­product declarations

Compliance

We use specific software solutions and scientifically recognized
databases to determine and evaluate the ecological footprint
of our products and solutions on the basis of LCAs. In addition
to detailed life-cycle assessments (full-scale LCAs), we make
use, where appropriate, of simplified life-cycle assessments
(screening LCAs) such as CO2 screenings.
The results of the LCAs are the basis of our environmental
product declarations (EPDs) and support product development.
In this way, we help our customers improve their current and
future environmental impact. To ensure that our EPDs offer a
consistent level throughout the company, we bring together
the experience of the individual Business Units in the form of
a dedicated panel of experts. To optimize internal processes,
the panel of experts has developed process guidance for the
preparation of environmental product declarations. This guid­
ance has been verified by an external auditor for compliance
with the criteria set out in ISO 14025. By applying this process
guidance, Siemens increases its standard of quality in drawing
up EPDs.

26

2014

Full-scale LCAs

Facts and Figures

For us at Siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with
our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – wher­
ever we do business. A key element of integrity is compliance:
­adherence to the law and to our own internal regulations. We
have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of the princi­
ples of fair competition – and where these do occur, we rigor­
ously respond.
Our Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our
compliance-related responsibilities. They are also an expres­
sion of our values and lay the foundation for our own internal
regulations. Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for
all employees worldwide.
Our Compliance System aims to ensure that all our worldwide
business practices are in line with these guidelines and in
compliance with all applicable laws. To serve this purpose and
provide the Company with reliable protection against compli­
ance risks, our Compliance System has three pillars: Prevent,
Detect and Respond. We are continuously working to further
strengthen compliance in our Company and to combat corrup­
tion together with other organizations (Collective Action).

We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Con­
vention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of
the OECD, which – like the 10 principles of the United Nations
Global Compact – provide important guidance for our entire
organization. We are also actively involved in the Global Com­
pact. At the end of 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was
elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery /Corruption
of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD.
Our activities in the World Economic Forum include the Com­
pany ’s participation in the Pact Against Corruption Initiative
and the Siemens General Counsel’s membership in the Global
Agenda Council on Transparency & Anti-Corruption.

COMPLIANCE PRIORITIES FOR FISCAL 2015
AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Our compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing
development and further improvement of our Compliance
System. In this connection, we take into account and aim to
fulfill continuously evolving requirements in the compliance
field, which reflect both our own work and the changing mar­
ket conditions and compliance risks of our business activities.
In light of our experience to date and – above all – in line with
our entrepreneurial concept Vision 2020, we have developed
this approach further in order to create a reliable long-term
perspective for the ongoing development of compliance at
Siemens.

Ownership culture is a cornerstone of Vision 2020, and the in­
tegrity of our employees’ decisions and actions is an essential
part of it. Every employee is expected to act responsibly and to
live up to this principle. Our Compliance System aims to support
Siemens employees in making risk-based decisions with integ­
rity – this is how compliance can ultimately provide reliable
assurance to our Company and its employees and at the same
time help strengthen an ownership culture at Siemens. There­
fore, ownership culture lies at the heart of our compliance pri­
orities. Compliance will continuously contribute to Vision 2020.
With effect from fiscal 2015, we defined the compliance prior­
ities as illustrated and briefly described in the figure below.
These priorities, which have also guided our activities in fiscal
2015, are supplemented by focus areas and activities for each
fiscal year.
Achievements in fiscal 2015 include the implementation of
the Siemens Compliance Operating Model as a comprehensive
Management System for the global Compliance Organization,
the conclusion of funding contracts for projects we selected for
the second funding round of the Siemens Integrity Initiative
and the start of first projects (see section “Collective Action and
Siemens Integrity Initiative” below).

Compliance priorities

Foster Integrity
Support business management to meet its
responsibilities for compliance and further
strengthen the culture of integrity in our
­Company and beyond.

Committed to Business

Committ
e
Busine d to
ss

Foster
Integrity

Ownership
Culture

Excellent Compliance Team

Continue providing our businesses with
the appropriate level of assurance within
our Compliance System.

Effective Processes
e

tiv
ec e
Eff ess
c
Pro

s

c
m elle
p
n
Te lian t
am ce

Ex
Co

Provide an excellent compliance team through
a first-class learning and development landscape and close collaboration.

Manage Risk & Assurance

R isk &
age nce
an
a
M ssur
A

Further intensify cooperation between the
Compliance Organization and our businesses
and reinforce our Compliance System’s
­market and customer focus.

iance Priorit
ies
mpl
Co

Continue to further optimize and streamline
our compliance processes.

Vision 2020

Facts and Figures

27

We have also completed a project to reinforce our business­
partner compliance due-diligence process launched in fiscal
2014. Among other improvements, the company ’s compliance
risk a
­ ssessment process has been further developed: Anti-money
laundering has been included as part of our activities to inte­
grate this topic area into the Siemens Compliance System.
The planned Integrity Award has been incorporated into one of
the categories of the “Werner von Siemens-Award.” This new
company award is the successor to our former competition
and was held in fiscal 2015 for the first time. It honors Siemens
employees who have made outstanding contributions to driv­
ing our business as currently outlined in our Vision 2020 and
fostering our Company’s ownership culture.
Lastly, we largely concluded a company-wide project aimed at
creating a comprehensive learning and development landscape
for the Siemens Compliance Organization.

COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT
Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process requires that
CEOs and managers in the Company – together with the relevant
Compliance Officers – systematically determine and assess the
compliance risks to their units on a regular basis.
As previously reported, a CRA was performed for all the Com­
pany ’s operating units in fiscal 2013. Based on our experience
to date and the analysis of these results, the CRA process has
been further developed. Starting in fiscal 2014, the CRA is per­
formed in two different ways:
>> In even-numbered years, the CRA process is performed for
“top-risk” countries in order to complement the analyses
at the Lead Country / Division level and in Healthcare with
­in-depth risk assessments for selected countries. We identify
these countries in advance based on an analysis of external
and internal compliance risks.
>> In odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the CRA
­process is performed at the Lead Country/Division level and
in Healthcare.
Accordingly, in fiscal 2015, the CRA was performed for the di­
visions, Healthcare and Lead Countries. The CRA results have
been incorporated into the Group-level compliance risk analy­
sis, which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring
compliance risks to the Company as quickly as possible. Along
with the CRA results, this analysis of the overall Group-level
compliance risks takes into account, for example, the insights
from compliance controls – the ongoing assessment of the op­
eration of our compliance processes to ensure their effective­
ness – and the results of case-related investigations.

28

Facts and Figures

The corporate compliance risks are derived from these con­
solidated results, which are then shared with the Company ’s
businesses. As in the CRA process, relevant risks are reported
to Siemens’ Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and measures
to reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented.
The identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens
entities worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk
analysis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange
during the quarterly Compliance Risk Radar meeting.

BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
Cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs
clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part
of Company operations and often essential in order to reach
certain areas of the market. At the same time, however, the
Company may be liable for the actions of these third parties.
Our mandatory process and tool for business-partner com­
pliance due diligence is designed to help all Siemens entities
conduct risk-based integrity checks of business partners. Trans­
parent and risk-oriented decisions about a business partner re­
lationship are based on high-quality compliance due diligence.
The management of each Siemens unit is responsible for the
unit’s utilization of business partners. This means that business
partners must be carefully selected and appropriately monitored
and managed throughout the course of a business relationship.
In fiscal 2014, we carried out a project to reinforce the effective­
ness of our business-partner compliance due-diligence process
and of management’s assessment of the related compliance
risks. As a consequence of the project, we implemented a Webbased compliance training course that we made mandatory for
certain business partners prior to them entering into business
relationships with Siemens in fiscal 2014. Furthermore, both
the regular review of business-partner portfolios in Lead Coun­
tries, divisions and Healthcare as well as on-site ­compliance
checks for selected types of business partners as part of due
diligence were implemented in fiscal 2015.
Another outcome of the business-partner project is the new
“Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third Party Inter­
mediaries:”
Prior to this new setup, Siemens business partners were
obliged by the binding contract provisions to comply with prin­
ciples of the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines whereas
our suppliers were required to comply with our Code of Con­
duct for Siemens Suppliers, which included compliance with
all applicable laws and, in particular, the prohibition of corrupt

activities. We also required our suppliers to support the Code’s
implementation in their own supply chains. The Code of Con­
duct is based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global
Compact. Instruments such as sustainability self-assessments
by suppliers and sustainability audits by external auditors en­
able us to systematically identify potential risks in our supply
chain and to monitor whether our suppliers are in compliance
with the Code’s requirements.
In connection with the business-partner project we have cre­
ated a common code of conduct for suppliers and business
partners. The previous “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers”
was widely known, and the number of suppliers far exceeded
the number of business partners. Apart from updating vari­
ous aspects, we enhanced the provisions of the existing code
in the areas of anticorruption and antitrust and added specific
clauses about the prohibition of conflicts of interest. Both
Siemens business partners and suppliers now have to contrac­
tually commit to comply with this new code.

The assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the operat­
ing units and at the Group level offer important indicators that
help us develop and define the focus of our training activities,
including the selection of themed modules for the annual events
held in conjunction with the Integrity Dialogue. Our operating
units address specific challenges by enhancing their training
activities with additional topics from their own businesses or
by extending the mandatory target groups for specific compli­
ance training programs in their units. In this way, our training
activities reflect both Siemens-wide topics and the key topics
specific to the operating units.
We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees
perceive the topic of compliance. Since fiscal 2010, this has
been an integral component of the company-wide Siemens
Global Engagement Survey. The survey was carried out in fis­
cal 2015. We consider the results an indication of the continued
positive perception of compliance by our employees.

COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE
PERCEPTION
One focus of our preventive measures under the Compliance
System is to provide compliance training to all managers and
employees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. In
fiscal 2014, the definition of these “sensitive functions” was ex­
panded and specified more precisely. In accordance with the
company-wide binding definition of these “sensitive functions,”
the Compliance Officers of the relevant company units identify
the managers and employees whose participation is required and
ensure that they attend the training sessions. They monitor and
confirm the fulfillment of these requirements at regular intervals.
Our company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of
in-person and Web-based training programs. The in-person train­
ing programs also provide our employees with an opportunity
to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work exam­
ples. The third element of our compliance training portfolio
is the annual Integrity Dialogue to maintain an ongoing and
high awareness of integrity and compliance topics at Siemens.
The Dialogue, which is conducted across the entire Company,
serves as a forum for managers to discuss recent compliance
matters with their employees.

Compliance indicators 1
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Compliance cases reported

568

653

Disciplinary sanctions

208

195

therein warnings

116

114

therein dismissals

79

50

therein other  2

13

31

1 Continuing and discontinued operations.
2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and
­suspension.

The “Tell us” whistleblowing system and the Company ’s om­
budsman are two secure reporting channels that can be used
by our employees and external stakeholders to report violations
of external and internal rules. Reports using these channels
are passed on to our Compliance Organization. Possible mis­
conduct may also be reported directly via the Managing Board
or via supervisors to the Compliance Organization and, in par­
ticular, to the Compliance Officers in our individual company
units. Our employees regularly make use of this reporting
channel. In fiscal 2015, the total number of compliance cases
requiring further inquiries or investigations reported via all the
above-mentioned reporting channels was 568. We believe that
the decrease from fiscal 2014 (653) is within the normal range
of variation.

Facts and Figures

29

The total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance vio­
lations in fiscal 2015 was 208 (fiscal 2014: 195). The disciplinary
sanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to
the compliance cases reported in the same period: Disciplinary
sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which
a case was reported. This is due to the fact that a reported com­
pliance case has to undergo the Company’s entire internal case-­
handling process, from the mandating and performing of an
internal investigation to the documentation of its results in an
investigation report that will form the basis for related disci­
plinary sanctions and remediation measures.
Furthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for in­
stance, result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no disci­
plinary sanctions at all – for instance, because the employee
concerned has in the meantime left the company for some
other reason in the meantime. Therefore, here too, it is not
possible to establish a direct correlation between the numbers
of reported compliance cases and the numbers and types of
disciplinary sanctions implemented in a given reporting period.
In our view, the detected compliance violations in our Company
in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our Com­
pliance System has been properly designed and is being effec­
tively implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses and
the environment and regional areas we are working in, we do
not regard the number of such incidents as unusual.
The Compliance “Ask us” function allows our employees to ask
compliance-related questions. Incoming questions are auto­
matically forwarded without prior registration to the Compliance
Officers responsible for the employees’ entities. Furthermore,
all employees can pose questions directly to the Compliance
Officers responsible for their respective units. In light of these
developments, we decided to discontinue the reporting of
­inquiries submitted to the “Ask us” help desk from fiscal 2014.

EXTERNAL REVIEW OF SIEMENS COMPLIANCE
Siemens has retained the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
(“Gibson Dunn”) to conduct an independent review and assess­
ment of the implementation and operative effectiveness of
Siemens’ anticorruption policies, procedures and internal con­
trols. The goal of this review was to verify that the Siemens
Compliance System, as designed as of October 1, 2014, is in
compliance with the standards reviewed and certified on Oc­
tober 12, 2012, by the Siemens Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”) Compliance Monitor Dr. Theo Waigel.

30

Facts and Figures

Like the Siemens Compliance Monitorship, the Gibson Dunn
review was not designed to be a comprehensive review of all
business lines, all business activities or all markets. Rather,
Gibson Dunn’s targeted review focused on a limited number of
projects, divisions and countries, selected using a risked-based
approach, as well as Company headquarters. Gibson Dunn
summarized the scope, methodology and results of its review
in a report issued to the Company dated November 15, 2015.
The report concludes with the statement that, based on its
review, Gibson Dunn has found that the Siemens Compliance
System is adequately designed and implemented to prevent,
detect and respond to violations within Siemens of the FCPA
and other applicable anticorruption laws. Further, based on
certain tests of the Siemens Compliance System conducted by
Gibson Dunn for the period of October 1, 2014, and March 30,
2015, Gibson Dunn has found that the Siemens Compliance
System is effective in its implementation.

COLLECTIVE ACTION AND SIEMENS INTEGRITY
INITIATIVE
If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption
and fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible
must act collectively. That is why we have joined forces with
other organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical
markets through Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity
Initiative.
The global Siemens Integrity Initiative was launched by Siemens
on December 9, 2009. It earmarks more than US$ 100 million
for supporting organizations and projects fighting corruption
and fraud through Collective Action, education and training.
The initiative focuses on supporting projects that have a clear
impact on the business environment, can demonstrate objec­
tive and measurable results, and have the potential to be scaled
up and replicated. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes
one element of the July 2009 settlement between Siemens
and the World Bank and the March 2013 settlement between
Siemens and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Within the first funding round – based on the settlement with
the World Bank – 31 projects were funded with a total contrac­
tual funding volume of US$ 37.7 million.
The second funding round was announced on June 27, 2013,
and the deadline for applications was August 29, 2013. We
­received more than 180 applications from about 60 countries.
In a two-stage review and due diligence process, we selected
projects that are to receive approximately US$ 35.6 million of
­total funding over a period of three to five years. Related fund­
ing contracts were concluded by the end of fiscal 2015.

Recipients of Siemens funding awarded under the second
tranche include projects set up by the Ethics Institute of South
Africa, which works to combat corruption in South Africa and
Mozambique, TEID (Ethics and Reputation Society of Turkey),
the Global Compact Network India and the Berlin-based Trans­
parency International Secretariat. Another project partner is
the International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) in Vienna,
which again receives funding to support research and educa­
tional activities in the area of combating corruption.

The effectiveness of compliance at Siemens is based on the
global governance of our Compliance Organization as well as
clear-cut reporting lines and close cooperation between our
Compliance Officers around the world and our company units.
The other pillar of our Compliance System – with its three ac­
tion levels of Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the requirement
that all Siemens managers assume personal responsibility for
compliance in their respective units.
We will continue to further develop our compliance system in
order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of com­
pliance. Our compliance priorities described above will further
guide us and are specified by focus areas for fiscal 2016. Our
overall aim remains unchanged: We want to anchor integrity
permanently throughout our company in order to ensure sound
business decisions based on clear principles of integrity.

FURTHER INFORMATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For further information, please refer to:
Compliance Risks on pages 30 – 32 in A. Combined Management
Report and Note 21 Legal Proceedings on pages 88 – 90 in B.6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Siemens
­Annual Report 2015.

Corporate citizenship
Corporate citizenship is Siemens’ external, voluntary engage­
ment in society. The aim is to advance societies by making our
technology and knowledge accessible to more people around
the world. We strive to create shared value for society, while at
the same time strengthening our business. These activities can
take on a variety of forms, ranging from philanthropic d
­ isaster
relief to more strategic shared-value or inclusive business
­approaches like our mobile clinics in India.
Within a global framework, responsibility for choosing and
carrying out charitable activities lies with the local units in
each country. This ensures that we provide support where it is
needed most. In doing so, we apply high management stan­
dards and strategically focus our corporate citizenship activi­
ties in three focus areas where our company competencies,
resources and employee volunteering can make a meaningful
difference:
>> Education and science: Our goal is to maintain a continuous
dialogue with young people and to identify and foster tal­
ent from an early age. We support educational and research
activities, particularly in natural sciences, engineering and
healthcare.
>> Social: Projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic
and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. In
addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including
financial and technical assistance after natural disasters.
>> Environment: We want to make an effective contribution
toward protecting the environment, particularly through
our core competencies, and raise environmental awareness
among younger generations.
>> Arts and culture: In addition to the above three focus topics,
we support Arts and Culture because a society’s cultural her­
itage is a key aspect of its identity.
We demonstrate our social commitment on the basis of figures.
That is why we provide information about our donations by
category and region.
Donations
Fiscal year

Total (in millions of €)
Share of net profit (in %)

2015

2014

26.6

26.3

0.5

0.5

Facts and Figures

31

Donations by category (in millions of €)
Fiscal year

Education and science

2015

2014

16.1

14.8

Social

6.2

6.8

Environment

0.1

0.2

Arts and culture
Total

4.2

4.5

26.6

26.3

Donations by region (in millions of €)
Fiscal year
2015

2014

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

14.8

16.3

therein Germany

11.5

12.3

Americas

9.3

8.0

Asia, Australia

2.5

2.0

26.6

26.3

Total
1

Commonwealth of Independent States.

The Siemens Stiftung aims to empower people to actively
contribute toward solutions to social challenges. It focuses on
­holistic, non-business-related, transferable projects and models
in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Europe (with a partic­
ular emphasis on Germany).
Established in 2008 with capital of € 390 million, Siemens
Stiftung is a nonprofit foundation under German civil law. It
complements Siemens’ corporate citizenship activities and co­
operates with the other six corporate foundations established
by the Company in Argentina, Brazil, Denmark, Columbia, the
United States and France.

32

Facts and Figures

Annex

Annex
GRI G4 – key aspects and boundaries
Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects

No.

1. Profit

1.1

We contribute to our customers’ ­competitiveness
with our products, ­solutions and services.

1.2

We partner with our customers to
­identify and develop sustainability
related ­business opportunities.

1.3

We operate an efficient & resilient ­supply
chain through supplier code of ­conduct,
risk ­management, and capacity building.

Internal
Boundaries

External
Boundaries

GRI G4 Aspects

Customers

Economic: Economic Performance

own
­operations

Customers

Economic: Economic Performance

own
­operations

Suppliers

Economic: Procurement practices
Environmental: Supplier environmental assessment;
Grievance mechanism (environmental)
Labor practices: Supplier assessment for labor
practices; Grievance mechanism (labor practices)
Human rights: Supplier human rights assessments;
Grievance mechanism (human rights)
Society: Supplier assessment (for impact on society);
Grievance mechanism (for impacts on society)

1.4

We proactively engage with our ­stakeholders to
manage project and ­reputational risks and identify
­business relevant trends.

own
­operations

Customers,
­Suppliers,
Society

Economic: Economic performance;
­Indirect ­Economic Impacts

1.5

We adhere to the highest ­compliance & anti-­
corruption ­standards and promote integrity
via the Siemens Integrity ­Initiative.

own
­operations

Customers,
­Suppliers,
Society

Environmental: Compliance; Grievance mechanism
(environmental)
Labor practices: Grievance mechanism
(labor ­practices)
Human rights: Forced or Compulsory Labor;
­Grievance mechanism (human rights)
Society: Anti-Corruption, Anti-competitive behavior;
Grievance mechanism (for Impacts on society)
Product responsibility: Compliance

34

Annex

Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects

No.

2. Planet

2.1

We enable our customers to increase energy
­efficiency, save resources and reduce carbon
­emissions.

2.2

We develop our products, solutions and services
based on a life-cycle p
­ erspective and sound
­eco-­design standards.

2.3

We minimize the environmental impacts of our
own operations by applying e
­ nvironmental
­management programs.

No.

3. People

3.1

We contribute to the sustainable develop­ment
of societies with our portfolio, local operations,
and thought leadership.

Internal
Boundaries

External
Boundaries

GRI G4 Aspects

Customers

Environmental: Energy, Emissions

own
­operations

Customers

Environmental: Product and Services

own
­operations

Society

Internal
Boundaries

External
Boundaries

GRI G4 Aspects

Society

Economic: Indirect economic impacts

Product Responsibility: Product responsibility
and service labelling

Society: Local communities

We foster long-term relationships with local
­societies through ­Corporate Citizen­ship projects
jointly with partners.

own
­operations

Society

3.3

We live a zero-harm culture and ­promote the
health of our employees.

own
­operations

Suppliers

3.4

We live a culture of leadership based on common
values, innovation mindset, people orientation
and diversity.

own
­operations

3.2

Environmental: Materials; Energy; Water;
­Emissions; Effluents and Waste; Transport

Economic: Indirect economic impacts
Society: Local communities
Labor practices: Occupational health and safety
Economic: Market Presence
Labor practices: Employment; Training & Education;
Diversity and equal opportunity; Equal remuneration
for women and men; Non discrimination

The detailed GRI G4 Index – Comprehensive Option is available at our Sustainability website at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ABOUT/SUSTAINABILIT Y/EN

Annex

35

United Nations Global Compact
Siemens has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since
2003 and is expressly committed to upholding the Compact’s ten
principles. These “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum
to the Siemens Annual Report”, our online Communication on

Progress at the UN Global Compact webpage and in particular
the following report index, describes the progress we have made
during the year – broken down according to the systems and
measures we have implemented as well as our achievements.

Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact
Principle

Systems

Measures

Achievements

Principle 1
Support of human
rights

Our Siemens Business Conduct Guide­
lines (BCG) provide the ethical and
legal framework within we conduct
our business activities. They contain
our basic principles and rules for our
conduct internally and externally, for
example on human rights core labor
standards. The BCG are mandatory for
all Siemens entities worldwide. With
our Code of Conduct (CoC) for Siemens
Suppliers we ensure that these basic
rights and principles are also observed
in our supply chain.

Our Code of Conduct (CoC) for Siemens
suppliers and third party intermediaries
includes besides other:

In the year under review, the number
of sustainability self-assessments added
up to 3,508. We conducted 981 supplier
quality audits with integrated sustainability
questions and 50 external sustainability
audits. In the external sustainability
audits, we identified a total of 1,142 poten­
tial improvements. Serious deviations,
such in the areas of ­“health and safety
for employees”, were identified at five
­sup­pliers but were corrected by the set
­deadline in direct interaction with the
responsible procurement unit.

Principle 2
Exclusion of human
rights abuses
Principle 3
Assurance of freedom of association
Principle 4
Elimination of all
forms of forced labor
Principle 5
Abolition of child
­labor
Principle 6
Elimination of
­discrimination

Sustainability at Siemens
THIS REPORT PAGE 6

Supply chain management
THIS REPORT PAGE 18

We do not tolerate discrimination and
have anchored that in the Siemens
Business Conduct Guidelines. We
actively foster diversity within the
Company by creating a working
­environment that is open to all people,
independent of their cultural back­
ground, heritage, ethnicity, sexual
­orientation, gender identity and
­individual gender expressions.
Employees
THIS REPORT PAGE 11

> respect for basic rights of employees
> strong ­“health and safety”
> environmental protection
> zero tolerance on bribery and
anti-corruption
In 2015 we updated our CoC and
included additional requirements
on fair competition, anti-trust laws
and intellectual property rights, a
chapter on conflicts of interest and
the avoidance of conflict minerals.

Supply chain management
THIS REPORT PAGE 18

Supply chain management
THIS REPORT PAGE 18

Our various global diversity networks
promote and discuss diversity topics
across the Company. These groups
and programs include the Global
Leadership Organization of Women
(GLOW), Diversity Ambassador and
GENE, our generation's network to
foster cross-generation exchange.
In addition, we have over 140 local
employee networks worldwide with
employees actively engaged in diver­
sity-related programs and activities.
The success of all measures is assessed
annually in the diversity scorecard.

In the year under review, women
accounted for 23% of our total workforce.
The proportion of female employees
in management positions at Siemens has
risen continuously in recent years and
is now 15.4 %.
Employees
THIS REPORT PAGE 11

Employees
THIS REPORT PAGE 11

Principle 7
Precautionary
­approach to environmental protection

Siemens has installed a comprehensive
EHS management system. This system
requires our relevant production and
office sites to implement an environ­
mental management system which
fulfills the requirements of the inter­
nationally recognized ISO 14001
­standard as well as our own internal
standard, known as ­“Specifications on
environmentally compatible product
and system design”.
Environmental protection
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

36

Annex

We took extensive action in this field
by continuing our “Serve the Envi­
ronment” program and our Energy
Efficiency Program (EEP). As far
as product-related environmental
­protection is concerned, the program
“­Product-Eco Excellence” enables us
to define environmental requirements
throughout the product lifecycle.

Our programs “Serve the Environment
(StE)” for industrial environmental
­protection and “Product Eco Efficiency
(PrEE)” for product-related environmental
pro­tection were reconfirmed in 2014 and
extended to 2020. Additionally, as of 2016,
we intend to reduce our CO2-emissions
by 50 % as early as 2020, aiming to being
carbon neutral by 2030.

Environmental protection

Environmental protection

THIS REPORT PAGE 21

THIS REPORT PAGE 21

Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact
Principle

Systems

Measures

Achievements

Principle 8
Specific initiatives
to promote environmental protection

Raising our employees’ awareness of
environmental and climate protection
is an element of both our environ­
mental strategy and our social com­
mitment. With internal communi­
cations measures and our corporate
citizenship focus on “environmental,”
we help create a greater sense of
responsibility for ecological issues.

Siemens maintains a global environ­
mental communications network to
ensure that knowledge about environ­
mental management, methods,
­solutions and experiences is commu­
nicated across locations, Businesses
and national borders.

In the year under review, we donated
around € 26.6 million for corporate
­citizenship ­activities, of which € 16.1 mil­
lion went to education and science and
€ 0.1 million to environmental activities.

Environmental protection
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

Corporate citizenship
THIS REPORT PAGE 31

Additionally we will invest
€ 100 ­million over the next three years
to improve energy efficiency of our
production facilities and buildings.
Sustainability at Siemens
THIS REPORT PAGE 6

Additionally support the WEF Climate CEO
Statement and the “We mean business”
­initiative.
Sustainability at Siemens
THIS REPORT PAGE 6

Corporate citizenship
THIS REPORT PAGE 31

Environmental protection
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

Principle 9
Development and
diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies

As part of our Environmental Portfolio,
we develop and market products,
solutions and services that enable
our customers to reduce their CO2
emissions, lower lifecycle costs and
protect the environment.
Siemens Environmental Portfolio
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

We continuously review our portfolio
with regards to newly developed
or acquired portfolio elements that
­q ualify as Environmental Portfolio
­elements or exclude elements that
do no longer fulfill our qualifications
­criteria.

The Environmental Portfolio elements
that were installed for our customers
from 2002 to 2015 helped them cut their
CO2 emissions by 487 million tons.
Siemens Environmental Portfolio
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

Siemens Environmental Portfolio
THIS REPORT PAGE 21

Principle 10
Measures against
corruption

The Siemens Business Conduct Guide­
lines (BCG) provide the ethical and
legal framework within which we
­conduct our business activities. Our
compliance system aims to ensure
that all our worldwide business prac­
tices remain within this framework as
well as in compliance with applicable
laws. We have zero tolerance for
­corruption and violations of the
­principles of fair competition – and
where these do occur, we rigorously
respond. Our compliance system
has three pillars: Prevent, Detect,
Respond.
Compliance
THIS REPORT PAGE 26

With effect from fiscal 2015, we
defined our compliance priorities:
> Foster Integrity
> Manage Risk and Assurance
> Effective Processes
> Excellent Compliance Team
> Committed to Business
These priorities are supplemented
by focus areas and activities for each
fiscal year.
We actively support the enactment of
the UN Convention against Corruption
and Bribery of the OECD. Our Chief
Compliance Officer was elected Chair­
man of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery /
Corruption of the Business and Industry
Advisory Committee to the OECD.
Compliance
THIS REPORT PAGE 26

We have implemented our Siemens
­Compliance Operating Model as a com­
prehensive Management System for
the global Compliance Organization, the
­conclusion of funding contracts for
­projects we selected for the second fund­
ing round of the Siemens Integrity
­Initiative and the start of the first proj­
ects. We have completed the project
to reinforce our business partner compli­
ance due diligence process launched
in fiscal 2014. Anti-Money laundering
has been additionally included in our
Compliance Management System.
We largely concluded a company-wide
project aimed at creating a comprehensive
learning and development landscape for
the Siemens Compliance Organization.
In fiscal 2015 the total number of com­
pliance cases, requiring further inquiries
or investigations, reported via all available
reporting channels were 568. We believe
that the decrease from fiscal 2014 (653)
is within the normal range of variation.
Since the launch in 2009, the Siemens
Integrity Initiative has implemented
55 anti-corruption projects in over
20 countries, receiving so far more
than US$  70 million in support.
Foreword
THIS REPORT PAGE 2

Compliance
THIS REPORT PAGE 26

Annex

37

United Nations Water Mandate
Progress report
Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water
Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water
Mandate reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, man­
aging water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing
solutions that help our customers and societies handle water
and waste water more economically.

OUR OWN ACTIVITIES
For more information about the resource conservation and
water consumption at Siemens locations, see section Environ­
mental Protection ( THIS REPORT PAGE 21) . We are pursuing a
new approach to water resources management that was devel­
oped in 2012. At locations where there are increased water-­
related risks – for example, as a result of aridity, high waste­
water loads, or poorly developed technical infrastructures – we
define goals that are matched to local circumstances. This
­enables us to effectively reduce risks and negative impacts on
the environment.
Our Business Units offer solutions for drive technologies,
­energy distribution and automation for water and wastewater
treatment plants and water transport. Furthermore they pro­
vide solutions for intelligent monitoring and control of water
networks, such as the Siemens Cities Performance Tool. We
also require Leadership in Energy and Environmental D
­ esign
(LEED) certification for all our new buildings, including our
new global headquarters in Munich, where efficient use of
­water is a key element of building design criteria.

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
As a member of various international organizations, we’re
­involved in numerous initiatives and programs, including the
Action 2020 Water Project of the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development. We initiate and implement projects
in various regions that promote efficient use of water, such as:

Water harvesting initiative
Siemens has developed and supplied a system for the irrigation
of the cricket and football grounds of Bayswater Oval in Mel­
bourne that collects water from roof space, parking lots and
other run-off areas, cleans and stores it until it is used.

Water recycling in India
At the location of the Siemens works in Kalwa, India, a waste­
water treatment system has been installed that would, for the
most part, regulate itself.
For more information on these projects please refer to:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ABOUT/SUSTAINABILIT Y/EN

In addition, the Siemens Stiftung drives an e
­ ntrepreneurial
­approach to supply clean drinking water to communities. Proj­
ect examples include:

Safe Water Enterprises
With Safe Water Enterprises, Siemens Stiftung is committed to
a sustainable supply of safe drinking water in rural regions in
Kenya. In Kisumu, the third Safe Water Enterprise has started
operations in fiscal 2015 and is providing safe drinking water to
the community. It was built in cooperation with our partners
SOS Children’s Villages and SkyJuice Foundation.

OUR SUPPLIERS

Water-Energy Hubs (WE!Hubs)

The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill
are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The
responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For
more information on these requirements and on supply chain
management ( THIS REPORT PAGE 18) .

In the first phase, five new WE!Hubs will be built in Kenya and
three existing hubs will be refurbished, upgraded with an In­
ternet café, and equipped with new, more technically advanced
products. Three of the five new WE!Hubs will be built around
Lake Victoria, one in a Nairobi township, and one on a tea farm
in Kericho.
For more information with regards to the projects of the Siemens
Foundation, please refer to:
WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/PROJECTS

38

Annex

Environmental Portfolio reporting
principles
ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO GUIDELINE
As there are currently no accepted international standards
addressing the identification and reporting of so-called “green
products”, we report the revenue from our Environmental
Portfolio and the accumulated annual customer reductions of
carbon dioxide emissions generated by it in accordance with
internal regulations defined in our Environmental Portfolio
guideline.
This guideline set out criteria and processes for the qualifica­
tion of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles
and responsibilities as well as processes to account for annual
customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and refers to
financial reporting guidelines for recognition of revenue. It is
based on the Reporting Principles set forth in “A Corporate Ac­
counting and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” and “GHG
Protocol for Project Accounting” issued by the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol Initiative. These principles are relevance, com­
pleteness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conserva­
tiveness. Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio is
recognized in accordance with revenue recognition policies as
described in Note 2 in B.6 Notes to the Consolidated Finan­
cial Statements in the Annual Report of the Siemens Group
(“Siemens”) as of September 30, 2015.

SCOPE OF REPORTING
To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key performance
indicators are revenue and customer reductions of carbon
dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Siemens
Environmental Portfolio.
Carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers are calcu­
lated based on comparing the Environmental Portfolio element
(e.g. a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon diox­
ide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference solution (e.g.
a global average grid factor for power production). The annual
reduction of carbon dioxide in the reporting year is calculated
based on technical parameters (e.g. the installed capacity in
gigawatts in the reporting year or load hours). For all Environ­
mental Portfolio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual
reductions are added up to calculate the annual carbon dioxide
emissions reductions at our customers at the end of that year.

Our Environmental Portfolio elements are typically long-lasting
products (e.g. motors) or infrastructure elements (power plants,
trains) that contribute to reduction of carbon dioxide emissions
not only in the reporting year but for many years. We there­
fore also calculate the accumulated annual customer reduc­
tions of carbon dioxide emissions. The accumulated annual
emission reductions are calculated as customer reductions of
carbon dioxide emissions generated by Environmental Portfolio
elements installed in the current reporting period (see above)
plus those elements installed since the beginning of fiscal 2002
that are still in use at the customer. If elements installed in pre­
vious reporting periods are no longer in use, they are no longer
taken into consideration when calculating the accumulated
annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in the
respective reporting period.
For the Environmental Portfolio elements installed in a given
reporting period, we consider the reductions of carbon diox­
ide emissions for the entire reporting period, irrespective of the
actual date of installation during the year of first time recog­
nition.

GOVERNANCE – PROCESSES AND DEFINITIONS
The qualification of our Environmental Portfolio elements as
well as the respective reporting is based on clearly defined pro­
cesses and criteria.
In principle, products, systems, solutions and services of
Siemens AG and its subsidiaries may qualify for the Environ­
mental Portfolio. The entire Siemens business portfolio is
reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the appropriate qual­
ification of Environmental Portfolio elements based on the
criteria described hereafter. This covers the inclusion of newly
developed elements as well as the integration of additionally
qualified elements where evidence of fulfillment of the qual­
ification criteria was not available in prior reporting periods.
For additionally qualified Environmental Portfolio elements, we
report their prior-year revenue and prior-year contribution to
the accumulated annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide
emissions on a comparable basis. Elements that no longer ful­
fill our qualification criteria are excluded from our Environmen­
tal Portfolio; prior periods are not adjusted.
Prior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new
Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel
internal evaluation process which includes reviews in the re­
spective Siemens divisions as well as a review in the Sustain­
ability department.

Annex

39

Within this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of
documentation supporting the fulfillment of the qualification
criteria. Furthermore, Siemens considers whether or not signif­
icant “adverse effects” exist. Adverse effects describe the situ­
ation that a potential Environmental Portfolio element, despite
fulfilling the qualification criteria, might cause considerably
higher environmental effects elsewhere in the element’s life
cycle. If material adverse effects are known, the element is not
included in the Environmental Portfolio.
If the revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element
cannot be accurately separated from our total revenue, the re­
spective revenue will not be accounted for and reported due to
the principle of conservativeness. In fiscal 2015, revenue and
carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers generated
with the acquired aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor
business of Rolls-Royce plc, U.K., (Rolls-Royce) and with the
acquired business of Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (Dresser-Rand), a
supplier for the oil and gas industry, has not been included in
the Environmental Portfolio due to the fact that the evaluation
process of the portfolio has not been finalized yet.
The Siemens Sustainability Board chaired by Siemens Managing
Board member and Chief Sustainability Officer Roland Busch
annually acknowledges changes in the composition of the En­
vironmental Portfolio. Another task of the Sustainability Board
is to discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to
the inclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environ­
mental Portfolio.

CRITERIA FOR INCLUDING ELEMENTS IN THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO
An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system,
a solution or a service as defined above.
If all products, systems, solutions or services of a Siemens’ or­
ganizational unit meet one of the selection criteria, this unit
may be considered as an Environmental Portfolio element as
a whole.

Service types are differentiated between “product-related ser­
vice” and “value-add service”. In cases in which a Siemens prod­
uct, system or solution qualifies as an Environmental Portfolio
element, the revenue, and if applicable, the annual customer
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions of the “product-related
service” shall generally be accounted for and reported on in
line with the related Environmental Portfolio element. In cases
of “value-add services” the revenue and, if applicable, the
­annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions shall
be accounted for and reported on only if the service itself qual­
ifies as an Environmental Portfolio element by meeting one of
the selection criteria as defined below.
To qualify for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an el­
ement must meet one of the following selection criteria. Prod­
ucts, systems, solutions and services with planned application
in military use or nuclear power are not included in the Envi­
ronmental Portfolio.

Energy efficiency
The criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in en­
ergy efficiency of 20 % or more during the customer use
phase compared to the applicable baseline, or a reduction of
at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per
reporting period in the customer use phase compared to the
applicable baseline. If an energy efficiency increase can only be
reasonably defined as reduction of dissipation losses (e.g. as
defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
standards for energy efficiency classification of motors), a 20 %
reduction of dissipation loss would also qualify products for our
Environmental Portfolio.
Examples of products and systems meeting the above men­
tioned energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power
plants, intelligent building technology systems (both reduce
carbon dioxide emissions by at least 100,000 metric tons per
reporting period) or ELFA Hybrid Drives for buses (20 % effi­
ciency improvement).

Renewable energy
Furthermore, a core component of a system or solution may
qualify as an Environmental Portfolio element, if the compo­
nent provided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental
benefits resulting from the system’s or solution’s overall appli­
cation. This means that the environmental functionality of the
overall system or solution cannot be achieved without the com­
ponent provided by Siemens. Examples of core components
qualifying as elements of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio
are gear boxes for wind turbines or thyristor valves for high-­
voltage direct current (HVDC) power transmission systems.

40

Annex

This criterion covers technologies in the field of renewable en­
ergy sources or smart grid 1 applications and their respective
core components. The scope of the renewable energy criterion
is power generation and heat generation from, for example
wind power (onshore and offshore), tidal power, wave power,
hydroelectricity, geothermal power or biomass.

1 According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Smart
Grid Interoperability Standards Project (USA), the term smart grid, “refers to a
­modernization of the electricity delivery systems so it monitors, protects and
automatically optimizes the operation of its interconnected elements – from the
central and distributed generation through the high-voltage transmission network
and the distribution system, to industrial users and building automation systems, to
energy storage installations and to end-use consumers and their thermostats,
electric vehicles, appliances and other household devices.”

Examples of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements
are wind turbines as well as core components such as gear­
boxes for wind turbines.
The previous third selection criterion of environmental tech­
nologies was removed in fiscal 2015, as energy efficiency and
renewable energy are the main relevant selection criteria con­
tributing to the Environmental Portfolio. Prior year numbers
were adjusted accordingly in order to ensure year-on-year com­
parability.

DETERMINING THE REFERENCE SOLUTION –
BASELINE METHODS
Energy efficiency and annual customer reduction of carbon
dioxide are all assessed by carrying out a comparison with a
reference solution (baseline). There are three different op­
tions for the reference solution: before-and-after comparison,
direct-comparison with a reference technology or comparison
with the installed base. The final decision as to which base­
line is used is taken by the respective Division within Siemens
based on the following options:

Before-and-after comparison
A before-and-after comparison refers to the difference between
an initial situation at the customer and the situation after in­
stallation of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. A
before-and-after comparison implies the presence of a pre­
existing product, system, solution or service at the customer,
the characteristics of which are improved or substituted by the
employment of a Siemens product, system, solution or ser­
vice. This comparison may be applied, for example, in cases
in which a Siemens product, system, solution or service mod­
ernizes a power plant or optimizes the energy consumption of
a building.

Direct comparison with a reference technology
Direct comparison with a reference technology refers to the
difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or
service and either an appropriate single other technology or
a predecessor. Direct comparison with a reference technology
implies the existence of one alternative or predecessor product,
system, solution or service in the market which is employed
for the same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be ap­
plied, for example, by using low-loss high-voltage direct cur­
rent (HVDC) power transmission in comparison to conventional
alternating current power transmission.

Comparison with an installed base
Comparison with an installed base refers to the difference
between the Siemens product, system, solution or service and
an average of several installations employed for the same or a
similar purpose. Comparison with an installed base implies the
existence of global or regional average data on several installed
products, systems, solutions or services employed for the
same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for
example, to combined cycle power plants (CCPP) by drawing a
comparison with the average global greenhouse gas emissions
factor for electricity generation.
When calculating emission reductions compared to the base­
line, we consider either direct savings (e.g. by power plants
or efficient motors) or the indirect effects that occur when
different products in a system interact and create emission re­
ductions (e.g. components for building automation). If Siemens
only delivers core components but not the entire system, annual
customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions will only be
calculated for these parts.
The baselines are reviewed annually and, if necessary adjusted,
such as when statistical data on the installed base is updated
because of technical innovations or regulatory changes.
The calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions
is based on a specific comparison for every relevant Environ­
mental Portfolio element with a baseline. For this calculation,
we focus on those elements that have a material impact on the
overall carbon dioxide emissions reduction.

EMISSION FACTORS FOR CALCULATING THE ANNUAL
REDUCTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline refer­
ence for the installed base is determined using known global
emission factors such as those for power production. The base­
lines used for our calculations are mainly based on data from
the International Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power produc­
tion and for grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors,
and our own assessments of power production efficiency.

Annex

41

Most relevant emissions factors applied in 2015 are:
Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation
Category

Emission factor
(g / kWh)

Basis for comparison of Environmental Portfolio elements
(g CO2 / kWh)

Power generation

Global power generation all primary energy carriers

583

Global power generation fossil energy carriers

857

Renewables

Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses)

630

All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains

Source: IEA (IEA World Energy Outlook 2014) 1, own calculations
1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2014 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2013).

For consistency reasons, we generally apply global emission
factors for calculating emission reductions unless specific
conditions of a solution require application of local emission
factors. For the calculation of annual customer reductions of
carbon dioxide emissions e.g. for wind turbines, we apply the
emission factor 857 g / kWh of global fossil power production as
the baseline.
Generally, our approach includes all greenhouse gases covered
by the Kyoto-Protocol. However, for power production and elec­
trical applications, we consider the only relevant greenhouse
gas to be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur in
technical applications, they are included in our calculations.
For some Environmental Portfolio elements, we do not know
the detailed parameters of use at our customers. We therefore
apply internal and external expert estimates for these, follow­
ing the principle of conservativeness.

REPORTING ESTIMATES
To date, there is no applicable international standard that ap­
plies across companies for qualifying products, systems, solu­
tions and services for environmental and climate protection,
or for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the
quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to
such products, systems, solutions and services.

42

Annex

Thus, the inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio
is based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other
companies and other stakeholders may view differently. Fac­
tors that may cause differences, among others, are: choice of
applicable baseline methodology, application of global emis­
sion factors that may be different from local conditions, use
patterns at customers that may be different from standard use
patterns used for carbon dioxide emission reduction calcula­
tions, assessment of the life span of the Environmental Portfo­
lio elements, internal assessments of our own power produc­
tion efficiency factors, share of a core component and expert
estimates if no other data is available.
Accordingly, revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the
reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions
may not be comparable with similar information reported by
other companies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emis­
sions reduction in the period of installation of the Environ­
mental Portfolio element. The period of installation will be
determined by milestones or based on estimated construction
periods. This may differ from the timing of revenue recogni­
tion. Furthermore, we subject revenue from our Environmental
Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon
dioxide emissions to internal documentation and review re­
quirements which are less sophisticated than those applicable
for our financial information. We may change our policies for
recognizing revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the
reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in
the future without prior notice.

Independent assurance report
The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY)
relates exclusively to the German PDF-version of the ­chapters
“Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” of the r­ eport
“Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to the Siemens
Annual Report.” The following text is a translation of the o
­ riginal
German Independent Assurance Report.

of internal controls for the preparation of a sustainability
­reporting that is free from material misstatements, in accor­
dance with the above mentioned criteria and based on suitable
methods for gathering source data including judgments and
estimates of the individual sustainability data.

OUR RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the sus­
tainability reporting based on our work performed.

To Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich

OUR ENGAGEMENT
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engage­
ment on the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts
and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2015 as
­addendum to the Siemens Annual Report” of Siemens AG (here­
inafter: the sustainability reporting) for the reporting period
from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015.
The report “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to
the Siemens Annual Report” is published as a PDF-version at

We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accor­
dance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage­
ments (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with
our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance
engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude
that the sustainability reporting is not in accordance, in ma­
terial respects, with the aforementioned reporting principles
and criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence
gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable
assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained
than in a reasonable assurance engagement.

WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INVESTOR/EN.

LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German PDF-­
version of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts
and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2015 as
addendum to the Siemens Annual Report”. Our engagement
did not include any prospective statements and links to other
web pages.

CRITERIA
We assessed the report against the criteria set out in the
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 issued by the Global
­Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, the key performance
­indicators of the Environmental Portfolio were assessed against
the reporting principles as outlined in the Annex “Environmen­
tal Portfolio reporting principles” and the underlying criteria
set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard –
Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting”
­issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
We believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance en­
gagement.

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Managing Board of Siemens AG is responsible for the
preparation and the content of the sustainability reporting in
compliance with the above-mentioned criteria. This responsi­
bility includes the design, implementation and maintenance

We are independent from the company in compliance with
the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA
Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity,
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidenti­
ality and professional behavior, and have complied with other
professional requirements of the IESBA Code.

KEY PROCEDURES
The performance of our engagement mainly involved the fol­
lowing work:
>> Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy,
sustainability principles and sustainability management in­
cluding the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG.
>> Inquiries of employees responsible in the central Corporate
Development Strategy – Sustainability department for the
preparation of the sustainability reporting in order to assess
the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and
compilation methods as well as internal controls to the ex­
tent relevant for a review of the sustainability reporting.
>> Inquiries of employees responsible in the corporate depart­
ments for the topics employees, occupational health and
safety management, research and development, supply chain
management, distribution and customer relations, environ­
mental portfolio, environmental protection, compliance and
corporate citizenship to assess the data capture and com­
pilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent
relevant for the review of the sustainability reporting.

Annex

43

>> Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and
processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustain­
ability data in the reporting period and testing such docu­
mentation on a sample of basis.
>> Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of divisions
and the separately managed business Healthcare regarding
the quality of the reported data.
>> Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis
relating to the collection and reporting of the sustainability
data from the topics environmental protection and occupa­
tional safety during site visits
–– at the location Finspang (Sweden) of the Division Power
and Gas,
–– at the location Frankfurt of the Division Energy Manage­
ment,
–– at the locations Karlsruhe and Nürnberg of the Division
Process Industries and Drives,
–– at the location Aalborg (Denmark) of the Division Wind
Power and Renewables,
–– at the location Walpole (USA) of Healthcare
–– as well as at the divisions Power and Gas, Energy Manage­
ment, Process Industries and Drives, Wind Power and Re­
newables and the separately managed business Healthcare.
>> Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis re­
lating to the collection and reporting of the key performance
indicators of the Environmental Portfolio including the pro­
cedures for determining the qualification of products, solu­
tions and services for the Environmental Portfolio during site
visits at the divisions Mobility, Power and Gas and Process
Industries and Drives.

44

Annex

>> Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the
Group’s headquarters, corporate departments, divisions and
the separately managed business Healthcare and at the sites
visited on material qualitative statements in the sustainabil­
ity reporting as well as the inspection of selected underlying
documents.
>> Review of material qualitative statements in the sustainabil­
ity reporting for plausibility and consistency.

OUR CONCLUSION
Based on our procedures performed to obtain a limited level of
assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to
believe that the information in the chapters “Sustainability at
Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” of the report “Sustainability
Information 2015 as addendum to the Siemens Annual Report”
has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
with the aforementioned criteria.
Munich, November 30, 2015
Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Spannagl
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Johne
Wirtschaftsprüferin
(German Public Auditor)

Notes and forward-looking statements
There is no standard system that applies across companies for
qualifying products and solutions for environmental and cli­
mate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective
revenues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions
attributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, rev­
enues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of
our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be
comparable with similar information reported by other compa­
nies. Revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the re­
duction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are
derived from various internal reporting systems that are gener­
ally different from those applicable to the financial information
presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in
particular, subject to less sophisticated internal documentation
as well as preparation and review requirements, including the
IT systems in use and the general internal control environment.
We may change our policies for recognizing revenues from our
Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’
annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without previ­
ous notice.
This document contains statements related to our future busi­
ness and financial performance and future events or develop­
ments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking
statements. These statements may be identified by words
such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,”
“­believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of simi­
lar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in
other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to share­
holders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives
may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements.

Such statements are based on the current expectations and
certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many
are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number
of risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited
to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter
Risks in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks
or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying expectations
not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, per­
formance or achievements of Siemens may (negatively or posi­
tively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implic­
itly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens neither
intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these
forward-looking statements in light of developments which dif­
fer from those anticipated.
This document includes – in IFRS not clearly defined – supple­
mental financial measures that are or may be non-GAAP finan­
cial measures. These supplemental financial measures should
not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of
Siemens’ net assets and financial positions or results of opera­
tions as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated
Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe
similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differ­
ently.
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other
documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and
percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
This document is an English language translation of the Ger­
man document. In case of discrepancies, the German language
document is the sole authoritative and universally valid ver­
sion.

Annex

45

Further information and information
resources
Further information on the contents is available from:
Adress:
Siemens AG
Wittelsbacherplatz 2
80333 Munich
Germany

Additional information
The Siemens Annual Report 2015 is available online at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT

Further sustainability information
Further information on our commitment to sustainability and
additional sustainability-related indicators are available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y

Phone:
Fax:
Email:

46

Annex

+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 33443 (Media Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 32474 (Investor Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 30085 (Media Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 32830 (Investor Relations)
press @ siemens.com
investorrelations @ siemens.com
sustainability @ siemens.com

Further information on research, development and innovation
at Siemens is available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION

© 2015 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich

siemens.com

