Sustainability
Information 2016
siemens.com

Foreword

Dear Reader,
It was Werner von Siemens, the founder of our Company, who first defined the purpose of the Company. He stated that science and engineering should be applied for the common good. The company has remained
true to that purpose for nearly 170 years by providing technologies that
improve quality of life and create lasting value for society.
Our reference for determining the value we create for society is the
United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It sets out
17 Sustainable Development Goals. Working from these goals, we identify issues relevant to the development of a country and demonstrate
how we contribute to reaching them: We call this new approach “Business to Society.” To date, we have completed Business to Society studies
for countries including Germany, the United Kingdom, Turkey and South
Africa. Further studies in key markets, such as the United States, the
United Arab Emirates, and Australia are in progress.
Combating climate change is one of the Sustainable Development Goals.
With the Paris Agreement, 193 countries pledged to limit global warming
to well below two degrees Celsius. This was the first time ever that so
many countries made such a comprehensive commitment to protect the
climate, and we believe it will boost investment in low-carbon technologies. We also believe that fighting climate change is not only prudent,
but profitable. Siemens is leading this effort.
In fiscal 2016, our products and solutions from the Environmental Portfolio enabled customers and partners throughout the world to reduce
their CO2 emissions by 521 million metric tons, which corresponds to
almost 60 % of the annual CO2 emissions of Germany. Simultaneously,
we increased our customer ’s energy efficiency and competitiveness.
Siemens is the first major industrial company to commit to cutting its
CO2 emis­sions by half by 2020 and to being carbon neutral by 2030. We
launched our CO2-neutral program in September 2015, and we are on
track: we have already invested € 32 million in 11 energy efficiency projects. Three of them have been completed, and the results are impressive: per year, they reduce operating costs by about € 1 million and CO2
emissions by about 6,000 metric tons.
But we will do even more. We will be investing a total of € 100 million
over the next four years and expect to achieve accumulated annual savings of € 20 million. In 2016, we inaugurated our new headquarters building in Munich. It is certified as a LEED Platinum building and consumes
90 percent less energy than the old building complex. Its photovoltaic
system meets about 30 percent of the demand for electricity. We will
continue to install our own energy systems at a growing number of our
facilities, for example at the Siemens Campus in Erlangen.

2

Foreword

Technological innovation plays a key role in meeting many Sustainable
Development Goals. To foster new disruptive ideas, we have bundled our
start-up activities in a separate unit called “next47”. It will receive funding of € 1 billion over the next five years and focus on Distributed Electri­
fi­cation, Artificial Intelligence, Connected (E)-Mobility, Autonomous Machines, Block-Chain Applications, and E-Aircraft.
Improved governance is one of the goals for sustainable development,
and that involves fighting corruption. It was just 10 years ago that we
had to deal with our own corruption scandal. We made fundamental
changes in our Company’s organizational setup and culture. We developed and implemented a comprehensive worldwide compliance program and made clear that we have zero tolerance for compliance violations and for any illegal behavior. Today, we are glad that we have been
able to regain the trust of stakeholders and to restore our reputation.
However, markets and regulations change. So we will stay vigilant. We
will continue to support the Siemens Integrity Initiative and Collective
Action in our markets.
Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals requires collaboration
among many stakeholders. We are fully committed to the targets and
principles of the United Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water
­Mandate. In August 2016, we signed the CEO statement for the United
Nations Women Empowerment Principles. We continue to support the
“WEF Climate CEO” and the "We mean business" initiatives.
Our contribution to sustainable development has been reconfirmed by
excellent ratings. Siemens has been included in the DJSI World Index for
17 consecutive years. RobecoSAM rates Siemens as one of the most sustainable companies in our industry. And CDP has recognized our per­
formance by rating us among the best when it comes to capturing business opportunities arising from low-carbon technologies, mitigating
climate risks, and reducing the carbon footprint in our supply chain.
Siemens does business in almost every country in the world. Wherever
we do business, our promise is to support sustainable development by
providing technologies that improve quality of life. That’s how we create
lasting value for society. And that’s what we call “Ingenuity for life”.
Sincerely yours,

Joe Kaeser

Dr. Roland Busch

Foreword

3

Content

Sustainability at Siemens

Facts and Figures

Annex

P. 6

P. 12

P. 37

Materiality

Employees

Reporting method

P. 7

P. 15

P. 38

Business to Society

Occupational health and safety ­management

Environmental Portfolio ­reporting principles

P. 8

P. 17

P. 42

Decarbonization

Research and Development

GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries

P. 9

P. 20

P. 43

Sustainability management and organization

Supply chain management

United Nations Global Compact

P. 10

P. 23

P. 46

Sustainability collaboration

Distribution and customer relations

United Nations Water Mandate

P. 10

P. 24

P. 47

External recognition of our ­sustainability
­performance

Siemens Environmental Portfolio

Independent auditor’s limited
­assurance ­report

P. 25
Environmental protection
P. 31
Compliance
P. 35
Corporate citizenship

P. 49
Notes and forward-looking ­statements
P. 50
Further information and i­nformation
resources

Sustainability at Siemens

In 2015, all 193 UN member states adopted the Agenda 2030 for
Sustainable Development and agreed on the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs). For us at Siemens, sustainable development is the means to achieve profitable and long-term growth.
We have a clear commitment to think and act in the interest of
future generations, achieving a balance between Profit, Planet
and People.
“Ingenuity for life” describes our unrelenting drive and promise
to create value for customers, employees and societies. “For life”
relates to our role in society: to make real what matters. We deliver on this promise by combining our innovation with our knowhow – in the areas of electrification and automation, enhanced
by digitalization – aiming at improving the lives of people today
and creating lasting value for future generations.
Sustainability at Siemens is a key enabler of our strategy program.
We are guided by responsible business practices in our interactions with external and internal stakeholders and we walk the
talk within our own operations with regard to environmental and
social aspects. We are convinced that sustainability is a business
opportunity, especially in the sense of energy and resource efficiency, and a key element for our aim to be the employer of choice.

PROFIT
We contribute to our customers’ competitiveness with our
products, solutions and services.
We partner with our customers to identify and develop sustainability-related business opportunities.
We operate an efficient and resilient supply chain through a
supplier code of conduct, risk management, and capacity
building.
We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manage project and reputational risks and identify business-relevant trends.
We adhere to the highest compliance and anti-corruption
standards and promote integrity via the Siemens Integrity Initiative.

PLANET
We enable our customers to increase energy efficiency, save
resources and reduce carbon emissions.
We develop our products, solutions and services based on a
life-cycle perspective and sound eco-design standards.
We minimize the environmental impact of our own operations
by applying environmental management programs and aim
to become carbon neutral by 2030.

PEOPLE

Materiality
For almost a decade we have included opportunities and risks
derived from the five megatrends – Climate Change, Urbanization, Demographic Change, Globalization and Digitalization – in
our decision-making processes. External frameworks, like the
Sustainable Development Goals, the ten principles of the UN
Global Compact, and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4
guidelines inform our material aspects. We identified key issues
in regular dialog with external and internal stakeholders, and prioritized them with regard to their importance for Siemens and
our stakeholders. In fiscal 2014, the results from this materiality
process were then discussed with our Sustainability Board and
finally approved by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board.
The following twelve principles were defined in this process and
are annually reviewed:

6

Sustainability at Siemens

We contribute to the sustainable development of societies
with our portfolio, local operations, and thought leadership.
We foster long-term relationships with local societies through
Corporate Citizenship projects carried out jointly with partners.
We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health of our
employees.
We live a culture of leadership based on common values, an
innovation mindset, people orientation and diversity.
The Siemens Divisions and regional entities define their material
action areas according to their local needs and circumstances. In
fiscal 2015, we defined two sustainability focus areas – Business
to Society and Decarbonization – which span the 12 principles
above. These focus areas aim to accelerate specific aspects while
we continue to improve our performance along all 12 principles.
In the following sections we set out the key facts and figures on
environmental and social topics that are most material to Siemens
and significantly impact our stakeholders. These topics are directly
derived from the 12 principles and guided by the GRI G4 reporting
guidelines. The “GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries” overview in
the Annex illustrates how we link our 12 principles with the key
material aspects of GRI G4.

Business to Society
At the heart of the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development are
the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 underlying
targets to guide governments, civil society and the private sector
in a collaborative effort for change. In order to enable our organization to conduct a structured analysis of our contribution to the
global SDGs as well as to national development priorities, we
have developed our Business to Society (B2S) approach. Understanding our impact and making it transparent not only lays the
foundation for informed strategic decisions and stakeholder dialogs, but also gives purpose to our employees. The B2S approach
consists of four steps:

1 Adopting an outside-in perspective of the most relevant development priorities in a given context (e. g. global, national,
project).
2 Identifying and measuring our contribution to these priorities.
3 Defining strategic actions to enhance our contribution and
shape further development.
4 Providing transparency on our contribution to external and
internal stakeholders.
The SDGs were clustered to six globally applicable impact areas
that have been developed in two pilot projects in fiscal 2015 to
provide an intuitive structure to the organization and external
stakeholders. This was the first step to comprehensively evaluate
our company-wide contribution to the SDGs, which we will finalize in fiscal 2017.
In fiscal 2016, we rolled out the approach globally, with eight
countries completing all the steps by the end of fiscal 2016: Argentina, China, Germany, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, T
­ urkey
and the U.K.

Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1 are clustered into to the Business to Society impact areas
Strengthening
the Economy

Developing local
Jobs and Skills

Driving
Innovations

Sustaining the
Environment

Improving
Quality of Life

Shaping Societal
Transformation

1 UN – transforming our world: The 2030 agenda for sustainable development.

Sustainability at Siemens

7

Highlight results include:
Siemens’ global operations contribute to about € 250 billion in
GDP creation and more than 4.3 million jobs, equaling more
than ten times the number of our own employees.¹
In Germany, 40 % of both purchasing volume and revenue are
attributable to business done with small and medium-sized
companies (SMEs).¹
Over the last six years the number of patients in emerging
countries with access to Siemens imaging systems increased
by more than two thirds from about 760 million in fiscal 2010
to about 1,270 million in fiscal 2016.²
In the U.K., more than 400,000 students were reached by
education p
­ rojects in fiscal 2015.
In September 2016, Siemens and the Argentinian government
agreed to intensify cooperation to create employment, support development of local SMEs, and train future engineers
and technicians.
1 Numbers from fiscal 2015.
2 Heathineers – Based on the number of installed Siemens computed tomography (CT) systems
in 113 developing countries (UN HDI 2010 < 0.785).

For fiscal 2017, we plan to roll out the approach in even more
countries in addition to developing empowerment concepts. At
the same time, first-wave countries will move into review cycles,
thus advancing from a project approach to a sustainable process.

We tackle greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) along the entire value
chain – in the supply chain, in our own operations and at our
customers.
Compared to emissions from our supply chain (approximately
17 Mt CO2), those of Siemens’ own operations (1.7 Mt CO2) constitute about 10 % of the overall cradle-to-gate emissions. This is
due to the fact that operations within our supply chain are more
energy-intensive than our own, mainly due to processing of raw
materials. We intend to collaborate more intensively with our
suppliers to support them in improving energy efficiency and reducing their CO2 footprints.

ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO
Our main contribution to climate change mitigation is our Environmental Portfolio. In fiscal 2016, we helped our customers save
more than 521 Mt CO2 with our products installed in previous
years and still in use. This amounts to more than 25 times the size
of our cradle-to-gate emissions. For further details please refer to
the
CHAPTER ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO and the
CHAPTER
­E NVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO REPORTING PRINCIPLES IN THE ANNEX .

Value chain emissions and savings from Environmental
­Portfolio (EP) in fiscal 2016 (in Mt CO2)
521

Decarbonization
~25x

We have considered Climate Change a megatrend for over a decade. In December 2015, 193 countries adopted the Paris Agreement and committed to limiting global warming to well below
2°C. The Agreement entered into force in November 2016, after
being ratified by more than 90 countries. Consistent with the
SDGs, Siemens is committed to contributing to the decarbonization of the global economy, which is required by the end of the
century. There are two main fields for action in order to achieve
decarbonization in the long term:
Decarbonization of the energy system by:
– Increasing the share of renewable energies
– Electrification of consuming sectors that currently use fossil
fuels for their energy demand
Reducing demand by increasing energy efficiency

8

Sustainability at Siemens

1.7
18.5

16.8

Supply
Chain

Own
­ perations
o

Cradle to
gate

1 Total annual savings of products installed since 2002 at our customers and still
in use in ­fiscal 2016: 521 Mt CO2.

EP savings 1

CO 2-NEUTRAL SIEMENS
To address our own operations, Siemens launched the global CO2neutral program in September 2015: Based on a positive business
case, we plan to halve the footprint from our own operations by
2020 and be carbon neutral by 2030 (baseline fiscal 2014). The
reduction of CO2 will be achieved through a series of ongoing
activities:

CO2-neutral target trajectory (in Mt CO2)¹

2.2

– 50%
2.0
1.7

1.1

Drive Energy Efficiency Program
Between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2020 we will invest more than
€ 100 million in improving energy efficiency at our own sites. With
these investments, we expect to achieve approximately € 20 million energy cost savings per year once all the measures are
­implemented. In this fiscal year, 11 projects within the Energy
Efficiency Program were already started at our manufacturing
sites with an investment volume of € 32 million. Furthermore, in
June 2016, Siemens moved into its new headquarter, a landmark
in terms of sustainable building. The new building consumes 90 %
less primary energy than its predecessor, has a solar photovoltaic
installation that covers approximately 30 % of its electricity demand and achieved the highest level of “green” building certification “LEED Platinum”.

Leverage distributed energy systems
We will expand our use of distributed energy systems at our own
sites by combining wind turbines, small gas turbines, solar panels, intelligent energy management systems and energy storage
solutions. Our long-term target is to generate 10 % of our electricity demand through distributed energy systems at our sites. The
Siemens Campus in Erlangen will be one of the first showcases.

Reduce fleet emissions
We will improve our Company ’s car fleet of about 47,000 vehicles, emitting roughly 300,000 t CO2 per year. Our goal is to reduce these emissions and related fuel costs by 30 % by 2020.
In fiscal 2016, offerings of hybrid and electric vehicles were expanded. Based on a survey on mobility requirements performed
by approx. 1,500 senior managers, additional innovative mobility
concepts are scheduled to be introduced in 2017. We will continue to roll out a CO2 component in our company car policies to
other countries.

Purchase “green” energy
We are increasing the share of purchased electricity from renewable sources like wind parks. In fiscal 2016, more than 30 sites in
Germany and several in the U.K. and the U. S. were already supplied with “green” electricity, covering more than a third of the
demand in these countries.

0.0

2014 2015 2016
1

2020

2030

As reported in respective fiscal year.

With all the described measures performed in fiscal 2016, we reduced our CO2 emissions by more than 440,000 t CO2 compared
to fiscal 14, which is the program’s base year. We are thus well
on track to achieve our interim goal of a 50 % reduction by 2020.
By executing the CO2-neutral program, we are not only protecting the environment and improving our cost position, but also
strengthening our expertise to apply innovative and environmentally-friendly technologies for our customers.

Sustainability management and
organization
The importance we attach to sustainability is evident from the
central position it holds within the Company ’s organization, in
our programs and in the measures we execute. Efficient sustainability management is a company-wide task that requires clear
structures and a thorough embedding of sustainability within our
Vision 2020 and our corporate culture.
All our sustainability activities are steered by the Chief Sustain­
ability Officer (CSO), who is a member of our Managing Board.
This person chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB), consisting of representatives from the Managing Board, Divisions,
countries and corporate functions. The SSB is the central steering
committee for sustainability at Siemens. It meets regularly to direct our sustainability activities as part of our corporate strategy
and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. The Sustainability Director manages the Sustainability department, which is responsible for driving sustainability within Siemens and for coordinating the sustainability activities and other company-wide
programs and measures. The director reports to the Chief Sustainability ­Officer. Additionally, sustainability is anchored across the
organization by our global network of Sustainability Managers in
the Divisions and countries, ensuring that all measures and initiatives are implemented.

Sustainability at Siemens

9

Sustainability collaboration
We believe that close collaboration with stakeholders supports us
in addressing complex, interlocking sustainability challenges.
Maintaining an intensive dialog with our customers, partners
along the supply chain, and other external stakeholder groups
and organizations helps us to regularly adjust our focus on material issues and upcoming trends and individual needs. We listen
to our stakeholders and integrate their perspectives into our business priorities and decision-making processes. Stakeholder engagement creates value for both stakeholders and the Company
through knowledge exchange and co-creativity. It is essential for
our business license to operate and it contributes to the improvement of business conditions and risk reduction on customer projects and in our own operations.
Stakeholder engagement is managed by dedicated departments
at corporate, regional, divisional or project level according to their
individual stakeholder landscape. Our key stakeholders include,
but are not limited to, customers, investors, suppliers, employees,
communities, policy-makers, media, non-governmental organizations, business organizations, and academia. Our Stakeholder
engagement requirements are anchored in our Project Management System (PM@Siemens) from the pre-tender and project
execution to the service phase.
We are continuing with our engagement with leading sustainability organizations, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the United Nations Global Compact
(UN GC). We are committed to its ten principles and actively contribute to the CEO Water Mandate. In fiscal 2016, we committed
to the Women Empowerment Principles of the UN GC and signed
the “Charta der Vielfalt”. For years, we have been a committed
member of One Young World. This year we participated with 50
delegates in Ottawa, Canada.
Since fiscal 2015, we have disclosed our sustainability information with reference to the guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI), which aim at high transparency and comparability for corporate sustainability reporting. In November 2015, we
contributed to the business voice at the United Nations Climate
Change conference in Paris and demonstrated Siemens’ role in
limiting global warming to well below 2°C through our decarbo­
nization activities.

10

Sustainability at Siemens

At the end of fiscal 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was elected
Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / Corruption of the
Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD.
Furthermore, he was appointed Chairman of the B20 Cross-­
thematic Group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption during the German G20 presidency 2016 / 2017. Activities
in the World Economic Forum include the Company’s participation in the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI).

External recognition of our
­sustainability ­performance
Our sustainability performance has continuously been externally
confirmed by the most renowned and relevant sustainability indexes and ratings.
With a score of 89 points, Siemens is a member of the DJSI World
Index of RobecoSAM/Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the 17th
consecutive year and hence one of the most sustainable companies in our industry. Siemens leads the industry in the economic
dimension and ranks second in the environmental dimension. In
the social dimension, we rank third. In 7 of 19 categories, we lead
the industry group “IDD Industrial Conglomerates”.
We also received high ratings on a number of other indexes and
rankings, including CDP, who rated us with “A−”. We responded
to the climate change and supply chain assessment to explain how
we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate climate
change risks while at the same time motivating our ­suppliers to
disclose information on how they are approaching c­ limate and
water risks and opportunities. Financial Times Stock Exchange
(FTSE) included Siemens in its FTSE4Good series. F
­ TSE4Good is
designed to identify companies that demonstrate strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices, measured against
globally recognized standards. In addition, Oekom awarded
Siemens with its “Prime” label, qualifying Siemens shares on the
stock market for an investment from an ecological and social perspective. Oekom research AG is the German market-leading provider of information for social and environmental performances
of companies and industries. EcoVadis rated Siemens with the
“Silver recognition level”, underlining our performance as a sustainable supplier to our customers.

Facts and Figures
Employees

The proportion of women as a percentage of the total workforce
remained unchanged at 23%.

Demographic change, employability and the impact of digitalization are key challenges we have been focusing on for several
years. People are the decisive factor for future success, and that is
why we strive to continuously win and retain the best employees
worldwide. We aim to be the employer of choice by empowering
and motivating all employees with a high-performance culture,
life-long learning and development possibilities. We are respectful, inclusive and diverse. At Siemens, everyone can develop according to individual talent and passion, while being treated fairly
independent of their ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability status and professional background. In projects
for our customers, we train our people thoroughly – enabling
them to use the opportunity for personal and professional growth.
Since fiscal 2010, we have been measuring employee satisfaction
with our management tool: the Siemens Global Engagement Survey. We aim to achieve an approval rating of over 75 % on a sustainable basis in the key categories of Leadership and Diversity.
These targets are also anchored in our strategy program “Vision
2020”. In fiscal 2015, more than 260,000 Siemens employees (77 %
response rate) took part in our worldwide survey, which is conducted every two years. Based on the constantly high employee
engagement and our results in both key categories in fi
­ scal 2015,
we are confident that we will achieve our targets by fiscal 2020.
On September 30, 2016, we employed 351,000 employees worldwide, which represents an increase of approximately 3,000 in
comparison to fiscal 2015. Of these employees, 61 % were in
­Europe, C. I.S, Africa and the Middle East, 21 % in the Americas
region and 18 % in Asia, Australia.

Proportion of women
September 30,
(as a percentage of total employees)

2016

2015

Siemens

23

23

Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East

22

22

Americas

24

25

Asia, Australia

26

27

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

New hires were about one tenth of the total employee base and
up by 8 % in the year under review compared to fiscal 2015. In the
same period, exits were up by 7 %. The percentage of all company
dismissals – as share of employee exits – was 15.9 % for the year,
compared with 18.3 % in the previous year.

Siemens employee hires
Fiscal year
(in thousands)

2016

2015

Siemens

35.1

32.6

Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East

18.5

15.4

Americas

8.5

9.1

Asia, Australia

8.1

8.0

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

Women hired
Fiscal year

Siemens employees

(as a percentage of new hires)
September 30,

2016

2015

Siemens

25

25

2016

2015

Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East

24

24

351

348

Americas

26

25

Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East
(as a percentage of total employees)

Asia, Australia

26

27

61

61

Americas
(as a percentage of total employees)

21

21

Asia, Australia
(as a percentage of total employees)

18

18

Siemens (in thousands)

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

Siemens employee exits
Fiscal year

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

12

Facts and Figures

(in thousands)

2016

2015

Siemens

30.8

28.8

Employee turnover rate

Use of working hour programs at Siemens
Fiscal year

(in %) 1

2016

2015

4.0

Part-time

10.4

10.0

Employees on leave of absence

9.0

8.4

2015

4.1

Employee decision
Other reasons for exit

4.7

4.3

Total

8.8

8.3

1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary e
­ xits
from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.

DIVERSITY

Retiring within the next five years
September 30,
(as a percentage of total employees) 1

2016

2015

15

15

Siemens

September 30,
(in thousands)

2016

1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60.

Changes in age structure
The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually
unchanged compared to the year before. The median age in the
year under review was 41.

At Siemens, we foster diversity throughout the organization –
through a variety of activities, measures and programs. Siemens
today is home for over 170 nationalities worldwide. Diversity
strengthens our innovative capacity, unleashes the potential of
Siemens’ employees and thereby directly contributes to our business success. We want to create an open workplace for all employees dedicated to our goals. After the new organizational
setup, we strengthened our diversity activities by phrasing a new
­strategy. The identified action areas reflect our strategy program
“Vision 2020”. Our focus areas are:
Consciously addressing Unconscious Bias
Promoting Gender Balance
Fostering the value of Globality
Encouraging Diversity & Inclusiveness

Age structure in fiscal 2016
(as a percentage
of total employees) 1

< 35

35 – 44

45 – 54

> 55

Siemens

31

28

26

15

Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa,
Middle East

27

27

30

16

Americas

26

26

26

22

Asia, Australia

51

33

13

3

Our focus on diversity is reflected, for example, in the adaptations made to our recruitment processes: These ensure that the
preliminary selection of candidates better reflects the diversity of
customers and employees at all levels and in all regions.

Employees in management positions¹
September 30,

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

Siemens

Working hours and working arrangements

Female employees in management positions
(percentage of all management positions)

Average official weekly working hours

2016

2015

61,800

63,000

15.6

15.4

1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary r­ esponsibility,
plus project managers.

September 30,
(in hours) 1

2016

2015

Siemens

39.0

39.0

Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East

37.7

37.6

Americas

41.0

41.1

Asia, Australia

41.3

41.3

Today, Siemens has 15.6 percent of female employees in management positions and, due to concerted efforts, this share is continuing to grow.

1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year.
2

Commonwealth of Independent States.

Facts and Figures

13

TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT
It is our employees that make Siemens successful. Therefore, we
are convinced that attracting, developing and retaining them are
essential activities. Recruiting in all of our countries is consistently based on the same global principles. This guarantees a high-­
quality hiring experience for all candidates around the globe.
We ensure continuous individual development with dedicated
processes and practices: The Performance Management Process
is one core element of talent development. It aims to create a
continuous dialog between employee and manager, about expectations regarding individual contributions and behavior as well
as feedback on actual impact and a demonstrated mindset of
ownership culture. We believe that achievements should be rewarded based on meritocracy: The compensation system for our
top executives and senior management worldwide includes a
significant variable component. Through a variety of concepts,
employees are encouraged to reflect on their aspirations and abilities, thus enabling them to grow into different roles and take
ownership of their career development. A portfolio of measures
ranging from balanced people development measures (on the
job, people experiences and formal learning) to dedicated potential development programs ensures that our talents are developed
continuously.

LEARNING, LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION

As part of Siemens’ commitment to education, every year young
talents from all over the world are provided with the opportunity
to gain work experience in Germany. Since 2012, the company
has been offering specifically designed apprenticeship training
for approximately 30 young Europeans a year from different European countries in Berlin. This year we extended the group with
talents from African countries like Algeria and Morocco. In total,
26 people from 15 European and African countries participated.
After completing their apprenticeships in mechatronics and electrical / electronic engineering, they return to their home countries
and work in one of our local operating companies.
The education program at Siemens is increasingly attracting interest abroad. That’s why Siemens is currently training around
2,240 young people in its local regional companies both inside
and outside Europe, for example, in the context of large customer
projects in Egypt and India.
We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their
competencies and qualifications. In fiscal 2016, we spent around
€ 270 million in continuing education (without travel expenses),
which equals about € 775 per employee.
The average number of training hours is divided between management training courses and several training courses specified
for our workforce. Each employee is encouraged to participate in
educational development to increase their lifelong employability.

Possessing the necessary skills at the right place and the right
time is a success factor for Siemens.
Siemens Global Learning Campus provides training courses to all
employees, helping to develop their personal skills, supporting
managers as they work to develop their teams, and assisting those
responsible for entire organizational areas as they seek to implement strategic steps and change processes. Siemens continues
to be one of Germany ’s largest providers of professional edu­
cation for secondary school graduates (about 6,740 places for
Siemens trainees, and about 2,460 places for trainees from other
companies). As in previous years, we again made 10 % of our
trainee positions available to young people from disadvantaged
backgrounds.

Average number of training hours of employees
in ­management positions
Fiscal year
(per participant per category) 1

2016

2015

SLE Training Alumni Top Management
(no trainings in fiscal 2016)

0

25

New general management appointees
(99 participants in fiscal 2016)

94

94

New advanced management appointees
(405 participants in fiscal 2016)

66

66

New management appointees
(461 participants in fiscal 2016)

66

66

1 Based on mandatory participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence
programs or executive courses.

14

Facts and Figures

SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE
It is our conviction that employees who hold shares of their company will identify more closely with it and thus be willing to assume greater responsibility and foster an ownership culture –
which ultimately enables the sustainable development of Siemens.
Right now, 97 % of the company’s employees have the opportunity to become Siemens shareholders via our company program.
With this program – the Share Matching Plan – Siemens rewards
the commitment and loyalty of employees with a participating
interest in the company. For every three Siemens shares employees buy and then hold for the applicable vesting period of two or
three years, they receive one Siemens share without payment of
consideration (matching share) – provided they are still employed
by Siemens and have not transferred or sold the shares. Thus, the
plan enables stock ownership for employees regardless of their
income level. Siemens “Vision 2020” aims to further raise the
num­ber of employee shareholders by at least 50 %. In fiscal 2015,
Siemens Profit Sharing was additionally implemented as a concept
with the aim of allowing employees below senior manage­ment
level worldwide to benefit from free Siemens shares in the case of
extraordinarily successful business years. In fiscal 2015, Siemens
endowed € 200 million to a Profit Sharing Pool.

EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS WITH
EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES
Siemens practices fair-minded collaboration between Company
management, employees and employee representatives, and upholds the fundamental rights of the employees. These already
apply worldwide and are firmly anchored in our Business Conduct
Guidelines. Underscoring the commitment to social responsibility and respect, the Siemens Central Works Council, the German
trade union IG Metall and the global industrial union IndustriALL
have signed an international framework agreement (IFA) in 2012
on the principles of corporate responsibility with reference to the
relevant international conventions of the United Nations, such as
the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global
Compact.

Occupational health and safety
­management
Occupational health and safety management is anchored in our
sustainability principles and in our business processes. We have
therefore developed central programs and processes that are applied locally and adapted to the respective business needs. Occupational health and safety management is an integral part of our
Business Conduct Guidelines, our internal monitoring systems and
our risk management and internal controls. In addition, occupational safety is part of the international framework agreement
between Siemens AG, the Central Works Council of Siemens AG,
IG Metall and the global union IndustriALL.

PROMOTING A CULTURE OF SAFETY
In addition to technical protective measures, we foster practicing
occupational safety culture by providing optimal working conditions for all Siemens employees and those of our contractors. Both
as a Company and as individuals, we are responsible for ensuring
that the working environment at Siemens is safe at all times and
for every employee. We strive for a global and consistent approach
that builds on local management systems and best practices to
achieve a sustainable performance.
Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities require high
safety standards. Safe behavior is governed not only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but also by the personal values of managers and employees. Our “Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens” program (ZHC@Siemens), which we launched in
fiscal 2012, has been further developed and rolled out to drive the
targeted cultural change on occupational health and safety. It
contains three principles:

Zero incidents – it is achievable! Everyone must be able to
work at Siemens without suffering an incident. Everywhere.
At any time.
Health and safety – no compromises! The health and safety
of all employees are our highest priority and must not be compromised by time or cost pressure.
We take care of each other! We work with open eyes to recognize dangerous situations and look after one another.
Risky behavior is not tolerated – we intervene when we see it,
and we lead by example.

Facts and Figures

15

To further align the different businesses and countries and to
achieve global coverage we are driving the rollout of our Zero
Harm Culture @ Siemens Country Concept. In addition, our businesses and countries further improve safety at the local level
through various activities according to local needs and requirements. To underline the importance of ZHC @ Siemens we introduced the ZHC @ Siemens Label as an additional element of the
ZHC @ Siemens program in fiscal 2016. To achieve the label, the
organizational units within the country have to deploy the Zero
Harm Culture @ Siemens program in a comprehensive and systematic way. The criteria for the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens
Label cover procedural, quantitative and qualitative elements,
and are reviewed by an independent Label Panel. In fiscal 2016,
nine countries achieved the Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Label:
Austria, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Ireland, Portugal, Turkey,
United Kingdom and South Africa.

ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE
When recording lost-time injuries (LTIs), we incorporate the applicable national definitions for categorizing incidents as being
work-related.

LTIFR employees and contractors 1
Fiscal year
2016

2015

Employees 2

0.56

0.62

Contractors 3

0.47

0.45

1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 200,000 / work hours
performed; LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count
as employees.
3 Contractors who bill by time, especially those who work on large project sites.

After a slight increase in the LTIFR for Siemens employees in fiscal
2015 (0.62) we achieved further reduction in fiscal 2016 (0.56) as
a result of all our implemented measures within Divisions and
countries.

Fatalities
Fiscal year
2016

2015

Fatalities at Siemens
(work related)

2

4

Fatalities at Siemens
(commuting accidents)

5

4

Fatalities at Siemens Contractors
(work related)

0

4

Total

7

12

In fiscal 2016, the overall number of fatalities was lower than in
fiscal 2015. Regrettably, we reported seven fatalities. All of them
involved Siemens employees. The seven Siemens cases included
five commuting accidents on the way to or from work and two
work-related cases. In the previous year, there were four fatalities
involving contractors and eight involving Siemens employees. In
fiscal 2016, there were five commuting fatalities compared to four
fatalities in fiscal 2015. Road safety was identified as a focus topic
for 2017.
Management attention is key to fostering and improving safety.
The responsible CEO of the business concerned therefore demonstrates commitment by personally reporting work-related fatalities or serious incidents to the Siemens Managing Board. This
includes the root causes and contributing factors of the incident
as well as corrective and preventive actions taken to prevent recurrence.
To achieve sustainable improvement and share lessons learned,
we continuously strengthen our incident investigation capabilities by providing professional training and support. To systematically analyze the causes of our incidents, root cause analysis
training courses have been conducted in Austria, in the U.K., the
U.S., China, Germany and the Middle East, with more to come.
One of our main safety risks is related to electrical safety. To significantly improve electrical safety, a Center of Competence for
Electrical Safety (CoC ES) has been established. This CoC ES is
based on a global team of highly experienced and qualified electrical engineers. Divided into several work streams, the team gives
specific advice. One key initiative is a global electrical safety campaign based on on-site workshops for electricians to raise awareness and improve electrical safety.

16

Facts and Figures

Contractors are a main resource, especially in our project business. Contractor performance and safety are important factors
for Siemens’ business success. In order to reduce the number of
accidents related to contractors we have introduced additional
business-specific actions and activities. Particularly on construction sites, such as our megaproject in Egypt, which includes three
4.8 gigawatt turnkey combined cycle power plants and 12 wind
parks with approximately 600 wind turbines, specific hands-on
training centers for employees of Siemens and its contractors
have been set up on site in order to improve relevant competencies and skills.
We also launched a global Center of Competence for Safety in
Projects (CoC SiP) in fiscal 2016. This CoC SiP consists of team
members with cross-functional expertise. One main focus is to
improve contractor management covering the entire process
from contractor selection and qualification, contracting and execution to contractor evaluation. It is integrated in our project
management process, and clear roles and responsibilities for all
functions involved are defined for each phase, with relevant documents and tools provided.
In fiscal 2016, health and safety audits also focused on highrisk
activities. The Siemens internal audit department was a
­ ssigned
to conduct EHS audits in order to check internal and external EHS
requirements. In total, 25 EHS audits have been conducted within
our Energy Management, Wind Power and Renewables, Power
and Gas, Mobility, Process Industries and Drives and Power Generation Services Divisions. The audits will be continued in fiscal 17
within other selected divisions and countries.

OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS
The total number of cases of occupational illness relative to the
number of employees has remained at a low level for many years.
The corresponding indicator (occupational illness frequency rate,
or OIFR, relative to 1,000,000 work hours performed) was 0.48
in the year under review (fiscal 2015: 0.35). Here we report the
figures for Siemens Germany, only. OIFR is calculated solely on
the basis of cases of occupational illness recognized by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association.

PROMOTING HEALTH
We are convinced that sustainable health promotion among our
employees will only succeed if all health-related measures and
initiatives are consistently aligned with the permanently changing requirements of today ’s working environment and complement each other in a sensible manner. Increasing the number
of individual measures is not enough. A systematic approach is
called for to manage health as a resource and act proactively. Our
company-wide program Healthy @ Siemens outlines a framework
for workplace health and well-being. It focuses on engaging top
management, local leaders and employees, enhancing collaboration of all health-relevant players and establishing a continuous
improvement process. In fiscal 2014, we introduced the Healthy
@ Siemens Label as a quality characteristic for sustainable health
management to encourage implementation. To achieve the
Healthy @ Siemens Label, Siemens country organizations have to
meet requirements in seven categories and pass a comprehensive ­on-site-assessment. So far, 19 countries have been awarded
the Healthy @ Siemens Label.

Research and Development
Our research and development (R & D) activities are ultimately
geared to developing innovative, sustainable solutions for our
customers – and the Siemens businesses – and simultaneously
safeguarding our competitiveness. For these reasons, we focus
in particular on
enabling energy supplies that are economically sustainable;
further enhancing efficiency in the generation of renewable
and conventional power and minimizing losses during power
transmission;
finding novel solutions for smart grids and for the storage of
energy from renewable sources with irregular availability;
promoting the efficient utilization of energy, especially in
buildings, industry and transportation, e. g. through highly
efficient drives for production facilities or for local and longdistance trains;
creating the highly flexible, connected factories of tomorrow
using advanced automation and digitalization technologies;
turning unstructured data into value-adding information, e. g.
when providing services such as preventive maintenance;
advancing the integration of medical imaging technology, in
vitro diagnostics and IT for medical engineering to support
improved patient outcomes.
Beyond these points of focus, we recognize how important highly
sophisticated software solutions are for all the fields of business
in which Siemens is active. R & D activities are carried out by our
businesses as well as our Corporate Technology (CT) department.

Facts and Figures

17

Corporate Technology is both a creative driver of disruptive innovations and a partner to the Siemens businesses. Its R & D activities are focused on the Company’s core activities in the fields
of electrification, automation and digitalization. In many research
projects, CT works closely with scholars from leading universities
and research institutions. These partnerships, along with close
collaborations with start-ups, are an important part of Siemens’
open innovation concept, which is designed to make the Company even more innovative.
In fiscal 2016, Siemens announced the creation of an autonomous
unit that will place the Company's partnership with start-ups on
a much higher level: next47. The unit went into operation in October 2016. It has been given a budget of € 1 billion for its first five
years. With the creation of next47, Siemens plans to further enhance its innovativeness and speed up the introduction of innovations to the marketplace. next47 is focusing on five innovation
fields: artificial intelligence, distributed electrification, autonomous machines, blockchain applications and connected electric
mobility. Electrically powered flight is an example of a disruptive
development being pursued by next47. In cooperation with Airbus, Siemens intends to demonstrate by 2020 that electricity can
be used to power large planes.
In fiscal 2016, we reported research and development expenses
of € 4.7 billion, compared to € 4.5 billion in fiscal 2015. The resulting R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses and revenue, was 5.9 % – the same level as in fiscal 2015. Additions to
capitalized development expenses amounted to € 0.3 billion in
both fiscal 2016 and 2015, mainly at Healthineers. As of September 30, 2016, Siemens held approximately 59,800 granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. As of September 30,
2015, it held approximately 56,200 granted patents. On average,
we had 33,000 R & D employees in fiscal 2016.

18

Facts and Figures

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
IN OUR BUSINESSES
R & D at the Power and Gas Division concentrates on developing
products and solutions for enhancing efficiency, flexibility and
economy in power generation and in the oil and gas industry.
These products and solutions include turbomachinery – primarily
high-performance, low-emission gas turbines for single operation
or for combined cycle power plants – and compressor solutions
for various process industries. The Division’s current technology
initiative, which started in fiscal 2015, is aimed at intensifying
R & D in innovative materials, advanced manufacturing methods
and plant optimization. Along with promoting digitalization in
overall product lifecycles, Power and Gas is on track preparing for
changing energy markets and their increasingly diversified centralized and decentralized structures.
At the Wind Power and Renewables Division, our R & D efforts
are focused on innovative products and solutions that allow us to
take the lead in performance, improve our competitiveness, and
build a stronger business case for customers. This includes finding ways to more intelligently monitor and analyze turbine conditions, and smart diagnostic services. Our R & D efforts also focus
on digitalization. At our remote diagnostics center in Brande,
Denmark, we collect digital data from more than 10,000 turbines
in more than 30 countries, which total more than 24 million data
sets annually. We use this data to provide value for our customers: in 85 % of cases, issues can be corrected and turbines restarted without sending out a service team.
The R & D activities of our Energy Management Division focus
on preparing our portfolio for changes on all voltage levels in the
world of electricity. The increasing infeed of renewable energy to
power grids requires that those grids become more flexible and
efficient, particularly with distributed generation on the rise. The
digitalization of future grids will enable intelligent grid operation
and data-driven services. Cost-out programs and optimization of
our footprint are improving the competitiveness of our product
port­folio on global markets. Our innovations are centered on
power electronics, digitalization or grid stabilization. The full
­integration of energy supply systems with process automation
is a core portfolio element for industrial applications and infrastructures.

R & D work at the Building Technologies Division focuses on optimizing comfort, operational and energy efficiency in buildings
and infrastructures, protecting against fire and security hazards,
and minimizing related risks. We aim to create a portfolio of products and services ranging from the field to the cloud, based on
open standards wherever possible. This includes data-based services for new ways of optimizing energy consumption, easily
scalable and reasonably priced services, a new and harmonized
system landscape with effective integration of electrical consumption, fire detection and HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) systems, and a complete range of products tailored
specifically to growing markets.
The Mobility Division’s R & D strategy addresses customers’ demand for maximum availability, high throughput and enhanced
passenger experience. Although there is a growing need for mobility worldwide, possibilities for building new roads and railways
are limited. Meeting the demand for mobility requires intelligent
solutions that make transport more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly. Reflecting this, Mobility ’s R & D activities emphasize digitalization in developing state-of-the art rail vehicles,
automation solutions for rail and road traffic, and rail electrification systems. Most of these goals can be achieved only with intelligent IT solutions such as WLAN-based control systems for driverless and conductorless metro train operation, decentralized
wayside architecture for rail automation, cloud-based product
solutions, and Integrated Mobility Platforms that intelligently
network passengers, mobility service providers and traffic management centers.
One of the R & D priorities at the Digital Factory Division is the
Digital Enterprise Software Suite. It includes Teamcenter software.
Serving as a data backbone, Teamcenter digitizes the entire product lifecycle management (PLM) process – from product design
through planning and engineering to production and service. In
addition, the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal engineering platform is being intensively improved. Thanks to its open
interfaces, it exchanges data with other systems. The seamless
link to simulation tools enhances the benefits of virtual commissioning, which is used to identify flaws at an early stage and in
a cost-effective manner. Data-based services are another field
of research. Siemens offers MindSphere, an industry cloud that
­industrial companies can use to develop and provide their own
digital services. As a result, new types of services such as predictive maintenance and resource optimization can be provided.
Machinery and plant builders can use it to monitor production
operations around the world. MindSphere helps them reduce
downtimes and offer new business models.

The focus of R & D activities in the Process Industries and Drives
Division is on the digital transformation of products, solutions
and services for all sectors in the process industry, such as oil and
gas, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Information and communication technologies (ICT) play a crucial role in areas such as improvements in instrumentation, analytics, industrial communication and process control systems. The end-to-end use of ICT is
as essential a prerequisite for the expansion of drive and trans­
mission platforms by means of integrated condition monitoring
and service cloud connections as it is for the commissioning and
­operation of processing plants or the use of computer-assisted
simulations to support their operators. The same applies for new
service offerings that complement operational engineering data
with additional condition-related data (condition monitoring) and
use it for purposes such as asset management. The digitalization
of our comprehensive process automation and industrial communication portfolio includes a holistic industrial security concept.
Another central objective of our R & D activities is to further increase energy efficiency while reducing the consumption of raw
materials and cutting emissions. This applies to our own product
creation processes as well as to our customers’ processes that are
facilitated by our products (systems, solutions and services).
The R & D activities of Healthineers are directed toward our growth
fields in therapy, molecular diagnostics, and services. We want to
tap the full potential of imaging solutions in therapy and to establish a closer connection between diagnostics and therapy in
cardiology, interventional clinical disciplines, surgery, and radiation oncology. Strategic partnerships are an essential part of our
strategy to reach this goal. Expanding our innovation map beyond our established portfolio, and investing in new ideas will
help us tap new business fields. For example, we will extend our
activities in the highly dynamic growth field of molecular diagnostics. We will expand our services business beyond productrelated services by adding a digital services portfolio and increasing enterprise transformation services to help customers in their
transition to value-based care within more and more provider
organizations across geographical borders.

Facts and Figures

19

Supply chain management

IDENTIFYING RISKS AND IMPLEMENTING
IMPROVEMENT MEASURES

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES

Due to our very large and dispersed supplier network – we procure from some 90,000 suppliers in around 150 countries – it is
not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same extent, for
example, via site audits. We have therefore established a riskbased system to systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain. The main factors are:

The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at Siemens
is to provide a substantial and sustainable value contribution for
the success of our businesses. The four elements of this value
contribution include:
Productivity
Quality
Availability
Innovation

Risk identification and categorization of all our commodities
Weighting the countries' risk level grouped by sustainability
indicators like legal compliance and prohibition of corruption
and bribery, respect for the basic human rights of employees,
prohibition of child labor, etc. We also use information from
internationally recognized organizations
Other strategic decisions, such as preparation for upcoming
projects with large local procurement volume

As such, the objectives clearly go beyond cost savings alone. In
fiscal 2016, Siemens’ purchasing volume amounted to ap­proxi­
mate­ly € 39 billion, which equaled roughly half of our total revenue.
In line with the objectives of “Vision 2020”, Siemens Supply Chain
Management has set up a range of activities in its “Bold Moves”
program to foster cost effectiveness and support global business.
Key elements of the Bold Moves program are “Cost and Value
Engineering” and “Global Value Sourcing”.
“Cost and Value Engineering” is a cross-functional program to
achieve cost-optimized technical solutions, including cost transparency across the entire value chain. “Global Value Sourcing” intends to strengthen the local presence and leverage the potential
in emerging markets. In both programs, Siemens strives to significantly increase activities by fiscal 2020.
All purchasing activities are being executed within the framework
of our sustainability requirements. These are the guiding principles and form an integral part of all relevant supplier management
processes – such as supplier selection, supplier qualification and
evaluation, and supplier development.

REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS
Instituted in fiscal 2007, we require all our suppliers to comply
with the principles of our “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers
and Third Party Intermediaries”. It includes, among others, respect
for the basic rights of employees, strong health and safety and
environmental protection standards as well as zero tolerance on
corruption and bribery. In fiscal year 2015, we updated our Code
of Conduct and included additional requirements on fair competition, anti-trust laws and intellectual property rights, a chapter
on conflicts of interest and the avoidance of conflict minerals.
The Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles of the UN
Global Compact and reflects the content of our Siemens Business
Conduct Guidelines.

20

Facts and Figures

This risk-based system consists of sustainability self-assessments
by suppliers, risk evaluations conducted by our purchasing departments, sustainability questions within supplier quality audits,
and sustainability audits by external auditors.

Sustainability self-assessments 1
Fiscal year
(Number)

Europe, C.I.S., 2 Africa, Middle East
Americas

2016

2015

1,157

940

684

543

Asia, Australia

2,377

2,025

Total

4,218

3,508
Fiscal year

(Results)

Category “green” (no deviations)
Category “yellow” (minor deviations) 3
Category “red”
(suspicion of serious deviations) 3
Total

2016

2015

2,974

2,577

686

436

558

495

4,218

3,508

1 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume
> € 50,000 p. a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review.
2

Commonwealth of Independent States.

3 Clarification of the situation by the designated buyer, agreement on corrective measures
within a defined period of time, or conduct of an external sustainability audit.

The sustainability self-assessments are, as part of the Siemens
supplier qualification process, under continuous review in order
to meet the latest requirements. Besides the qualification of new
suppliers, we furthermore renewed the qualification of other suppliers in accordance with our supplier qualification process which
requires the periodic requalification of suppliers every three years.
Over the years, we have constantly increased the number of conducted sustainability self-assessments. Both strengthened internal processes and monitoring, as well as growing awareness of
suppliers to evaluate their own sustainability performance, led to
a 20 % increase in fiscal 2016.

Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions
Fiscal year
(Number)

2016

2015

External sustainability audits
Fiscal year
(Number)

2016

2015

Europe, C.I.S., 1 Africa, Middle East

68

9

Americas

50

1

Asia, Australia

202

40

Total

320

50

(Agreed improvement measures) 2

2016

2015

Legal compliance / prohibition
of corruption and bribery

1,063

136

Respect for the basic
human rights of employees

2,371

357

Fiscal year

Prohibition of child labor
Health and safety of employees

185

35

2,679

388
170

Europe, C.I.S., Africa, Middle East

470

463

Americas

224

172

Environmental protection

422

Supply chain

316

56

7,036

1,142

1

Asia, Australia

254

346

Total

948

981

1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

The second element is supplier quality audits with integrated
sustainability questions. In fiscal 2016, we conducted 948 on-site
quality audits, thus keeping up our strong efforts over the last
years.
The most effective approach to review our suppliers’ sustainability performance is an external sustainability audit. This is conducted by one of our audit partners. As a quintessential part of
our risk-based approach we use these audits as a control mechanism for high-risk suppliers. In fiscal 2016, we increased the number of external sustainability audits conducted to 320 (from 50 in
the previous fiscal year) to be in line with our Global Value Sourcing initiative. The latter increases both the number of suppliers
and sourcing volumes from emerging markets. Hence, external
sustainability audits follow this trend of increasing globalization.

Total
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.

2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the
Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers or to structural improvements to management
systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier.

If deviations from our requirements are identified in our sustainability self-assessments or audits, they must be remedied by the
suppliers in question within a reasonable period of time. Besides
follow-up audits handled by our external audit partners, the responsible procurement units directly agree with the respective
suppliers on the corrective actions defined during our audits.
Deviations identified in the audits mainly relate to structural deficiencies in management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. Serious deviations, all cases
in the area of health and safety for employees, were identified at
eight suppliers but were corrected by the set deadline.
In all we do, we are guided by the principles of developing our
suppliers in close partnership and building up their competencies
for the long term. Nevertheless, in the event of substantial deviations or an unwillingness to implement measures for improvement, we exclude suppliers from any business with Siemens.
Since fiscal 2015, we have implemented the tightened process
of the “Central Warning Message” which ensures a faster and
more effective reaction to major breaches of the Code of Conduct
requirements: All local blockings now have to be reported to
­Corporate SCM. There, the necessity of a worldwide blocking is
decided centrally. It allows us to block suppliers for all Siemens
organizations worldwide at short notice.

Facts and Figures

21

We continuously work on the requirements for occupational
health and safety standards for suppliers at our project construction sites. Specifically for the health and safety management systems, we require a detailed risk assessment for every trade, an
appraisal of the risks identified, and measures to mitigate them.
In fiscal 2016, we have focused on a stricter contractor selection
and the extensive evaluation of the contractors’ safety performance while present on Siemens project sites. For fiscal 2017, we
will implement this joint SCM and EHS process. The process will
be tool-based and mandatory for all relevant Siemens organizations worldwide.

KNOW-HOW TRANSFER AND CAPACITY BUILDING
We still believe that our suppliers’ commitment to complying with
our sustainability principles is most effective when it is based on
their own convictions. The key is to build our suppliers’ competence and intensify knowledge transfer related to sustainability.
Supporting this, we updated our “Code of Conduct brochure” in
fiscal 2015, available both electronically and as a print version. In
addition to in-person meetings we support our suppliers with an
inter­net-based information and training platform, which we updated in fiscal 2016, available free of charge to all suppliers. In
parallel, we also updated the company-wide training program for
Siemens buyers including the training module “Sustainability in
the ­Supply Chain” that is mandatory for all Siemens employees
with purchasing responsibility.

CLIMATE PROTECTION AND CONFLICT MINERALS
As part of Siemens’ CO2-neutral program and our CDP reporting,
we collect and publish data on our greenhouse gas emissions
(Scope 3 upstream) caused by purchased products and services.
As of fiscal 2016, we disclose our Scope 3 upstream emissions in
the chapter “Industrial Environmental Protection” of this report.
We have started to evaluate our CO2 emissions more deeply in
key commodities and at specific suppliers. The result will be the
basis for future decisions on how to select suppliers for joint work
on decreasing the CO2 emissions for our purchased products.
Siemens is well aware that products and components purchased
from suppliers may contain minerals from conflict regions. The
Conflict Minerals Statutory Provision defines “conflict minerals”
as tin, tantalum, gold, tungsten and the ores from which they are
extracted, or any other minerals or their derivatives determined
by the Secretary of State of the United States of America to be
financing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo region.
Siemens has developed a “Conflict Minerals Policy” and integrated
it into the purchasing process to ensure that uniform, enterprisewide duty of care is in place within the supply chain. Our approach
is informed by the risk-based requirements of the “OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas”. Responsibility for the
adherence and related activities lies with the Supply Chain Management organization.
In order to establish transparency on the use, sources and origins
of conflict minerals in our supply chain, we work to identify the
smelters involved in our supply chain. We collaborate closely with
the “Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)” and with our direct
suppliers. In surveying our suppliers, we make use of the “Conflict
Minerals Reporting Template” developed by the CFSI. We notify
our CFSI partners of the smelting facilities identified in the course
of the supplier survey. The CFSI then checks whether the smelters
cited are certified. We are an active member of the “Conflict-Free
Smelter Program” and encourage those smelters not yet certified
to take part in audit programs. Here we stand alongside these
smelters as they progress to their final audit and eventual certification. The results of each case are communicated via the CFSI
website.
We are confident that this joint approach and the certification of
smelters and refiners will increase the demand for conflict-free
raw materials and transparency within the supply chain as a whole.

22

Facts and Figures

Distribution and customer relations
Our strategy program “Vision 2020” has a clear focus on customers: We want to be closer to our customers and markets and aim
to foster an intimate and trusting partnership with our customers.
We serve customers in almost every country of the world and
want our management to reflect this global orientation even more
strongly in the future. To measure customer satisfaction, in other
words, the quality of the partnership, we use the Net Promoter
Score (NPS). Hence, we annually conduct a comprehensive customer satisfaction survey. In addition, we implement processes
and systems that facilitate fostering long-term customer loyalty.
Moreover, loyal customers not only keep buying and increasing
their purchases over time, but are also more likely to recommend
Siemens to a colleague or business partner.
During the survey, we also receive feedback from our customers
on where we could improve. In accordance with these improvement areas, the Divisions and regions define measures that are
reviewed on a regular basis to enhance customer relations. The
definition and implementation of measurements is a crucial step
toward getting closer to the overall Siemens goal of becoming
our customers’ partner of choice. A follow-up process is implemented both internally and externally – regardless of the customer rating. In the case of a critical NPS rating (1–6 on a scale
from 1–10), we immediately follow up on the interview to create
transparency on critical issues and evaluate whether reasonable
measures can be initiated to substantially enhance the relationship. The NPS for fiscal 2016 was based on the results of approximately 26,000 interviews in 116 countries and in 36 languages.
In fiscal 2016, our company-wide NPS rose once again compared
to the previous fiscal year.

Most of our customers are small and medium-sized companies
and organizations that care about local interaction. To address
local business opportunities with them, we are able to draw on a
large global sales force steered by our regional companies. They
are responsible for serving our customers in the respective countries, leveraging our global network of market partners like consultants, distributors, integrators, engineering, procurement and
construction companies (EPCs) and machine builders. We are currently selling products and services in almost every country in the
world. Our Divisions drive sales on a global scale. They are able
to support customers around the world directly from their respective headquarters, especially for large contracts and projects.
Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our long-term
success. We employ a structured key account management (KAM)
approach throughout the Company to take care of our key customers. Our key account managers continually develop and maintain relationships with them over the long term. This approach is
supplemented by our Executive Relationship Program. In this program, members of the Company’s Executive Management stay in
direct contact with selected customers and maintain an ongoing
dialogue with them to familiarize Siemens with their needs.
We drive close cooperation with renowned universities. This provides access to top-grade knowledge to constantly develop our
go-to-market approach. One example is a study we conducted
this year in cooperation with the Technical University of Munich
on changes in the information and buying behavior of B2B customers in general and our customers in particular due to digital
media and sales channels.
To address these changes, Siemens has developed global and local
channels on relevant social media platforms within the last years
including Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and Instagram. In
total, we address about three million followers directly on these
channels. We follow a clear conversation paradigm and aspire to
respond within one day. Established processes between cor­porate
communications and customer care cater for a high and timely
response rate. Siemens orchestrates topics that are relevant for
customers and prospects across all social media platforms and in­
fluences the customer decision-making process in the early stages.

Facts and Figures

23

Siemens Environmental Portfolio
The Siemens Environmental Portfolio is part of Siemens’ response
to global challenges such as climate change, scarcity of natural
resources and environmental pollution. It is therefore a key element of the Sustainability focus area “Decarbonization”, as described in the
CHAPTER SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS . The Environmental Portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and
services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that meet one of our
selection criteria, namely energy efficiency and renewable energy. These elements reduce impact on the environment and
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (defined
together in the following as carbon dioxide emissions), which are
responsible for climate change. The reduced level of impact is
measured by carrying out comparisons with reference solutions
(baselines).
With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other things,
to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide footprint, cut
their energy costs and improve their profitability through an
­increase in their productivity. In addition to its environmental
benefits, our Environmental Portfolio enables us to compete successfully in attractive markets and generate profitable growth
underlining Siemens’ strategic focus on technologies for energy
efficiency and climate and environmental protection. For fiscal
2016, more than three-quarters of the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio was generated from products and solutions for
energy efficiency.

Key results of the Environmental Portfolio
Fiscal year

Revenue generated by the
Siemens Environmental Portfolio
(continuing operations, in billions of €)

2016

2015

36.3

32.7

Annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide
emissions generated by elements from the
Siemens Environmental Portfolio newly
installed in the reporting year (continuing
operations, in millions of metric tons)

60

58

Accumulated annual customer reductions
of carbon dioxide emissions generated by
elements from the Siemens Environmental
Portfolio within the reporting year (continuing
operations, in millions of metric tons)

521

487

The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute the most
to the total reduction of carbon dioxide emissions at our customers are combined cycle power plants (CCPP), power plant moderni­
zation and upgrade activities, power generation from wind power,
frequency converters and high-voltage direct current (HVDC)
power transmission systems.
Including revenue from newly developed and additionally qualified Environmental Portfolio elements and excluding revenue
from elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria, revenue from continuing operations relating to the Environmental
Portfolio in the current year amounted to € 36.3 billion, exceeding the comparable revenue of € 32.7 billion from fiscal 2015. This
means that in fiscal 2016 our Environmental Portfolio accounted
for 46 % of our revenue from continuing operations.
Furthermore, with our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements
installed in fiscal 2016, we helped our customers reduce their
emissions by a further 60 million metric tons of carbon dioxide.
With the total of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio elements
installed at customer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002
that remain in use today, we reduced accumulated annual customer carbon dioxide emissions by 521 million metric tons in fiscal 2016.
To learn more about the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, please
visit:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ENVIRONMENTALPORTFOLIO

24

Facts and Figures

Environmental protection
Siemens aims to increase customer benefits and strengthen its
position as a sustainable company while improving energy and
resource efficiency and fulfilling growing international requirements with regard to environmental protection. To reach these
objectives, Siemens has installed a comprehensive Environmental
Protection, Health Management and Safety (EHS) management
system. The requirements of this system help our operating units
comply with the applicable laws, regulations and customer requirements, satisfy our corporate requirements and achieve our
Siemens-wide environmental targets. The system requires that
all our relevant production and office sites implement an environmental management system which fulfills the requirements of
the ISO 14001 standard. For product-related environmental protection all relevant external standards addressing lifecycle aspects
are integrated in our own internal standard “Specifications on
environmentally compatible product and system design” covering international standards, e. g., IEC 62430 and ISO 14040 / 44. It
defines requirements to reduce the environmental impact of our
products and systems during the production, use, service, and
disposal phase. It forms an integral part of our business processes
and is mandatory for all our products.
Our programs “Serve the Environment” (StE)”, “CO2-neutral ” and
“Product Eco Excellence” (PrEE) address all our material environmental impact with regards to industrial environmental protection and product-related environmental protection, respectively.
Our objective is to improve our performance. The energy efficiency target of StE forms an integral part of our CO2-neutral program, targeting a net-zero carbon footprint by 2030 in of own
operations. We encourage our employees to engage in our programs by conducting training and workshops in all key markets.
In addition, we are running a “We say thank you” campaign, which
honors outstanding individual employees’ performance in environmental protection.

Compared with baseline fiscal 2014, we were able to significantly
improve efficiency in primary energy use by 18 % with respect to
comparable revenue, and reduce scope 1 and scope 2 emissions
by 355,000 t CO2 on a portfolio adjusted basis. By purchasing
“green” energy, as one of the levers in the CO2-neutral program,
we not only reduce our carbon emissions but also decrease the
primary energy input of our own operations. This trend has also
been supported by the implementation of energy efficiency measures. Compared with fiscal 2015, waste production in fiscal 2016
increased disproportionately to comparable revenue. Waste efficiency was slightly reduced by a further 1 %, making a total of
-3 % compared with base year 2014. We were nevertheless able to
further reduce waste to landfill by 12 % compared with the base
year, which underlines our “zero waste to landfill” ambitions. The
rising demand of environmental information led to a 25 % increase
in the total number of Lifecycle Assessments (LCAs) in fiscal 2016.
To further extend the value added of LCAs, pilot projects have
been conducted within the PrEE program in our business.

INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optimizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. Our two programs
“Serve the Environment” and “CO2-neutral” complement each
other and define Siemens-wide targets in the period to 2020 for
StE and 2030 for CO2-neutral:
Reduce absolute CO2 emissions by 50 % until 2020 and become
carbon neutral for our own operations by 2030 at the latest,
by driving energy efficiency, leveraging distributed energy systems, reducing fleet emissions and purchasing “green” energy.
Improve waste efficiency.
Reduce waste for disposal.
Assess water-related risks, apply adequate mitigation measures
and thereby implement the Siemens Water Strategy.
To continue the StE program, we are integrating energy and waste
efficiency aspects into our supply chain, assessing the total costs
of ownership for energy-intensive products. Air pollution control
will be considered holistically, taking into account the local air
emission situation at our production plants and offices. All energy-relevant sites will be trained in on-site energy generation in
order to foster energy efficiency and resilience against energy
price increases in the next two years. In 2016, Siemens further
enhanced its water strategy with a view to meeting modern challenges in water management, such as water scarcity, water pollution and impact from climate change, such as changing patterns
in flooding and precipitation.

Facts and Figures

25

Environmental management system
All our locations have an environmental management system in
place; 285 locations are also certified to ISO 14001. 283 are externally certified, while two have been audited and certified by
Siemens internal auditors. The decision as to whether a unit has
its environmental management system certified in accordance
with ISO 14001 is taken by the environmental protection executives of the businesses and countries in close consultation with
the environmental protection officers.
The requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standard are integrated into our management processes on an ongoing basis. At
least 30 sites are already certified to ISO 14001:2015, including
matrix certification for all sites of Divisions Wind Power and Renewables and Power Generation Services. A total of 49 Siemens
locations have implemented an energy management system in
accordance with ISO 50001 and further locations are in the process of implementing such a system. To implement the EU Energy
Efficiency Directive EED (2012 / 27 / EU), a European-wide approach
has been developed taking full advantage of our own energy services.

Secondary energy
Fiscal year
(1,000 gigajoules)

Electricity
District heating
Total

2016

2015

8,875

8,768

1,971

2,072

10,846

10,840

Electricity consumption increased by 1 %. The implemented efficiency measures partly managed to offset the increase in production and newly acquired business activities. The share of renewable electricity amounted to 23 % of the total electricity consumption.
The consumption of district heating decreased, mostly due to the
shorter heating period in Europe compared with previous years.
In total we were able to substantially improve our Primary Energy
Efficiency by 18 % compared with the base year fiscal 2014. This
efficiency indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to
the primary fuels consumed in generating the energy used at our
sites and the amount of energy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed.

Energy consumption
Primary energy
Fiscal year
(1,000 gigajoules)

Natural gas/liquid petroleum gas
Fuel oil, coal, gasoline/diesel
Total

2016

2015

5,480

5,335

434

370

5,914

5,704

The energy consumed by the Company business vehicles is recorded centrally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles, and trucks owned
by Siemens are grouped together for this purpose. In fiscal 2016,
the Company fleet consumed fuel with an energy content of
around 4.0 million gigajoules, compared with 4.3 million gigajoules in fiscal 2015. This is a decrease in consumption by almost
7 % mainly due to our car policy which encourages employees to
use more energy-efficient vehicles.

Greenhouse gas emissions
In fiscal 2016, the total consumption of natural and liquid petroleum gases increased by 3 %. The consumption of other fossil fuels
plays a minor role with respect to natural gas consumption. In
particular, there has been an increase in the consumption of onsite car fuels and fuel oil by 17 %, mainly due to newly acquired
sites. Overall, the total primary energy consumption increased by
4 % compared with the previous year. Despite the efficiency measures implemented and a reduced demand for heating energy, it
was not possible to offset the newly acquired business activities
and in general increased production.

26

Facts and Figures

We report our greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of the Corporate Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World
Resource Institute (WRI) and of the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the Company ’s ownership
or under its control. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)
refer to the consumption of purchased electricity and district
heating. We also started this year to report upstream emissions
(Scope 3) from our supply chain, such as purchases, goods and
services, capital goods, fuel and energy-related activities, waste
in operations, transportation upstream and business travel (already disclosed in previous years). Scope 3 emissions from our
supply chain have been calculated by means of a multi-regional
macroeconomic input-output model on the basis of our volume
of purchased goods and services.

Atmospheric pollutant emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions
Fiscal year
(in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents)

2016

Scope 1

856

907

Scope 2

883

1,222

1,738

2,129

Sum Scope 1 and 2

2015

Scope 3
15,071

—

Capital Goods

393

—

Fuel and energy related activities

235

—

55

—

Purchases goods & services

Waste in operations
Transportation upstream

634

—

Business travel

380

378

Total Scope 3

1

16,768

Other industrial emissions into the atmosphere are also relevant
in terms of environmental protection. Volatile organic compounds
(VOC) contribute to the formation of ozone close to the earth’s
surface and are responsible for what is known as summer smog.
We use these organic compounds as solvents in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes, and for surface cleaning. We
also monitor the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) and
comply with the Montreal Protocol, the international convention
on the protection of the ozone layer, as well as with country-specific legislation.

Atmospheric pollutant emissions

378¹

In fiscal 2015 only business travel reported as Scope 3 Emissions.

For Scope 1 and 2 combined, we reached a reduction in emissions
of 391 Mt CO2 compared to fiscal 2015. Direct greenhouse gas
emissions (Scope 1) have been reduced by 6 %. This is due to reduced heating emissions from natural gas, attributable to lower
consumption, warm winters and energy efficiency measures,
while taking account of portfolio changes. For the other Kyoto
gases, including sulfur hexafluoride, we have also seen a reduction. For SF6 alone, our emissions amounted to 162,000 t CO2
which is a reduction of close to 2 %, due to improvements in handling and emission control.
The significant reduction in Scope 2 emissions is mainly a result
of a change in our power purchasing policy as part of our CO2neutral program, as we move towards a cleaner power mix with
a strong focus on renewable energies and gas. We have therefore
purchased “green” electricity from hydro and wind power mainly
in Germany, Denmark, the UK, the US, and Austria, or we have
acquired suitable certificates there. According to the location-­
based approach which takes account of the average grid factors
of the above nations (converting the use of power to equivalent
CO2 emissions), we have saved 309 Mt CO2 through our “green”
electricity purchasing strategy.
Scope 3 upstream emissions amount to almost 17 Mt CO2. The biggest contribution comes from purchasing of goods and services,
adding up to almost 90 % of Scope 3 upstream emissions.

Fiscal year
(in metric tons)

2016

2015

Volatile organic compounds

915

886

Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons of
R11 equivalent ¹

0.17

0.27

1

R11 equivalent measures ozone depletion potential.

The volume of emissions of volatile organic carbon increased due
to emissions from aquired businesses, while the other sites reported a slight decrease in emissions. Some sites, such as Siemens
Standard Motors Ltd in China, have implemented effective emission-reduction projects. This clearly shows that training from the
Serve the Environment program (Module Air) has been usefully
deployed at the sites.
The volume of emissions of ozone-depleting substances decreased from 0.27 to 0.17 tons of R11 equivalents. Overall, we
have seen constant awareness with respect to implementing
phase-out plans for a step-by-step substitution, especially for the
primarily used R22.
In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical combustion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, resulting in a
figure of 193 metric tons for environmentally relevant locations
in the year under review. The figure includes nitrogen oxides released during the incineration of fuels reported in the section on
primary energy.

Facts and Figures

27

Waste

Water and wastewater

The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of
waste and its method of disposal. Our waste performance indicator addresses both waste efficiency and absolute disposal waste
reduction. Several sites have already achieved a Zero Disposal
waste status, like Power and Gas in Erfurt / Germany.

With the Siemens Water Strategy, we aim to reduce the local
negative impact of our water use, taking water stress and other
risks into account, such as water pollution or flooding of environmentally relevant areas. To date, we have analyzed 330 relevant
sites centrally using the Global Water Tool of the WBCSD, the
precipitation forecasts of the 5th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and flood risks according
to a risk consultant. These results show that water stress, impact
from climate change and flood risks are relevant to Siemens. The
results also show that our centralized risk assessments have to be
complemented with a local assessment, in order to produce a
sufficiently precise risk assessment. This is being carried out now.
From the start of fiscal 2015 until the end of fiscal 2016, 18 % of
our sites have implemented the water strategy.

We differentiate between hazardous, non-hazardous waste and
construction waste. The groups of hazardous and non-hazardous
waste are each further divided into recyclable waste and waste
for disposal. We report waste from construction or demolition
work separately because this kind of waste material arises independently of production.

Waste
Fiscal year
(in 1,000 metric tons)

2016

2015

Non-hazardous waste

365

340

Hazardous waste

27

26

Construction waste

43

168

436

533

Total

Implementation of Water Strategy
Fiscal year
2016 ¹

1

Year-on-year, non-hazardous waste increased by 7 %. Hazardous
waste rose by 4 %. The sharp reduction in construction waste in
fiscal 2016 is due to fewer construction activities. In total and including all waste types, we reduced the waste volumes of Siemens
by 18 % compared with fiscal 2015, although our total waste efficiency dropped to –3 % compared with our base year considering
comparable revenue. This is mainly due to the restructuring of
Divisions with the highest waste volumes and to increased metal
processing from large orders in another Division. Waste efficiency
therefore went down slightly by 1 % in fiscal 2016. We were nevertheless able to further reduce waste to landfill sites by 12 % compared with the base year, underlining our zero landfill ambitions.

Recycling
Fiscal year
(in %, including construction waste)

Share of recycling in total waste

2016

2015

90

91

The waste recycling rate was 90 %, 1 % lower than in fiscal 2015.
This change lies within the usual range of volatility and reflects
only small shifts within waste fractions.

28

Facts and Figures

18

Percent implemented Water Strategy
First reported year.

For the last two years, water consumption without chemically
unchanged cooling water has remained more or less stable and
only increased slightly by 3 %. If you take into account that 0.5 million cubic meters of water usage can be attributed to our new
acquisition sites, the other Siemens sites have reduced their consumption by 0.27 million cubic meters.

Water consumption
Fiscal year
(in million cubic meters)

2016

2015

Water consumption

7.70

7.47

Ground and surface water for cooling water
purposes (returned to receiving water body
chemically unchanged, but warmed)

21.86

20.73

Total

29.56

28.20

Wastewater from manufacturing processes amounts to less than
one million cubic meters. Volume-wise, our main water use is for
cooling processes, most of which is returned to the receiving water body with the same chemical water quality as when it was
drawn from the environment.

Wastewater
Fiscal year
(in million cubic meters)

2016

2015

Wastewater from employee facilities

4.81

4.89

Wastewater from manufacturing processes
(­total)

0.89

0.75

Other (incl. losses, )

1.38

1.43

Conditioned cooling water discharged
as wastewater

0.46

0.46

Total waste water without chemically
­unchanged cooling water

7.54

7.53

Cooling water (returned to receiving water
body chemically unchanged, but warmed)

21.86

20.73

Total wastewater

29.40

28.26

Environment-related incidents and penalties
In the year under review, we recorded 15 incidents classed as
being of environmentally minor relevance, 11 were oil or diesel
spillages, three were dust releases and one related to water hygiene. These are occurrences that have to be notified to the authorities – notifiable incidents – or that had an external impact
on the environment. Total fines from penalties in the year under
review were not significant.

Methodology, reporting on environmental factors
and collection of environmental data
In fiscal 2016, we used our environmental information system to
analyze 340 reports from sites in all relevant countries where
defined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such as
energy use, resource consumption and emissions within the environmental management. To measure and monitor our environmental impact, we use absolute values such as energy consumption in gigajoules. We report environmental data for continuing
operations. Extrapolation to 100 % was applied to reflect complete consumptions in our figures. Overall, the extrapolation was
only significant for water with 8 % and primary energy with 10 %.
We monitor our environmental impact for all office and production sites of environmental relevance using environmental data
gathered quarterly.

We calculate environmental efficiency on a portfolio-adjusted
basis equivalent to the adjustment used to calculate the comparable revenue change as stated in the Annual Report. Revenue
change in this context means the change of revenue from fiscal
2015 to fiscal 2016 excluding currency translations and portfolio
effects. This portfolio adjustment procedure for revenue was
used accordingly for the environmental efficiency parameters of
waste and energy as well as for the percentage of revenue covered by LCA and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs). The
approach therefore enables us to monitor and compare our environmental performance over time, regardless of acquisitions and
disposals from year to year, and closely relates environmental
performance to business performance.

PRODUCT-RELATED ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
The "Product Eco Excellence" program aims to increase transparency with respect to environmental product information, responds
to market developments (e. g. legal and eco design requirements,
labeling, and product environmental footprint) and delivers added
value for the customer and our business. To this end, our program is focused on resource productivity by implementing a sustainable management approach over the entire lifecycle.
Resource productivity starts with increasing awareness inside the
Company. To work satisfactorily on materials and components,
we therefore use product environmental assessments and a methodology to raise resource efficiency.

By 2020 the “Product Eco Excellence” Program will
Implement automated data collection and processing for declarable substances to increase transparency on substances in
our products. This is the prerequisite for further proactive substitution activities to address future statutory requirements
and customer demands.
Improve the coverage of LCAs and EPDs as we consider the
availability of product-related environmental information being an important basis to meet customer needs vis-à-vis product environmental performance.
Reduce critical materials being used in Siemens products, supported by a material assessment methodology. The overall
target of the program module is to reduce critical material
purchasing volumes.

Facts and Figures

29

Achievements in fiscal 2016
During the supplier qualification process, suppliers must commit
to declaring substances listed on the List of Declarable Substances
(LoDS). These substance declaration requirements are mandatory
for our suppliers and are included in procurement and project
contracts. On this basis, suppliers must notify if product parts,
components and / or compositions contain declarable substances
and must disclose relevant details about these substances. As a
systematic approach, it builds the foundations for our future automated data collection and processing with high data quality.
In order to establish an easy-to-use method, Siemens relies on an
internet-hosted database in which our suppliers declare the substances they use in their products. In 2016, we enhanced our tool
to make quality-based judgments to prove the accuracy of the
supplier information provided. As statutory requirements on declarable substances are increasingly stringent, our system for
declarable substances frequently takes into consideration the
possibility of enhancements.
Within Siemens, we aim to identify and reduce the environmental load of our products by using Full-Scale and Screening LCAs.
Both approaches follow the requirements of ISO 14040 / 44. However, screening LCAs only cover a part of the entire lifecycle, e. g.
the use phase that is of highest importance for our customers or
represents changes in product design in comparison with the
predecessor product generated.
By continuously increasing the number of LCAs, we gain a comprehensive knowledge base about the environmental footprint
we create during the entire lifecycle. We therefore started to extend our lifecycle approach to also cover services of products
placed on the market. Here, additive manufacturing is one of the
key technologies in service business, as demonstrated by the gas
turbine burner repair at Siemens Energy Management in Finspang
(Sweden). At the same time, we use the insight gained from the
LCAs to improve not only product-related but also process-related
aspects, as well as to help optimize the internal production landscape.
The current reporting period shows a continuously high coverage
rate for business units with LCAs (Screening and Full-Scale) and
EPDs. Compared with 2015, the revenue-based coverage ratio of
EPDs shows a slight reduction of 1 %. Figures for fiscal 2015 have
been adjusted to reflect changes in the composition of Business
Units and therefore differ from last year ’s report. Nevertheless,
in fiscal 2016, the absolute number of EPDs went up by 11 % compared with fiscal 2015.

30

Facts and Figures

Lifecycle assessments and environmental
product declarations
Fiscal year
(percentage of revenue ¹ covered)

2016

2015

Full-scale LCAs

65

63

Screening LCAs

46

44

EPD

65

66

1 We consider the revenue of a Business Unit in relation to Siemens revenue once we have
carried out at least one “Full-scale LCA,” “Screening LCA,” or “EPD” for their products or
­systems. No product-related coverage is calculated.

With our product-related environmental program, we aim to increase our LCA and EPD investigations in the future.
Furthermore, the product-related environmental program is supported by the module for Critical Materials. Based on the EU Commission communication “Report on critical raw materials for the
EU”, 20 critical raw materials were identified as supply-critical out
of 54 candidate materials.
In fiscal 2016, our critical material assessment methodology was
transformed within a tool as an internal application to accommodate the importance of the topic in our businesses. The tool
itself presents a variety of topics to component and product engineers to evaluate risks associated with critical materials (e. g.
ecological or toxicological effects or possible future scarcity) and
to support decisions for reducing or avoiding particular materials.
The purchasing volumes of the eight critical materials which are
assignable to the Siemens Business Units are analyzed via a Supply
Chain database. Compared with fiscal 2015, the current analysis
of the SCM database shows a decrease in the purchasing rates of
critical materials.

Compliance
For Siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – wherever we do
business. A key element of integrity is compliance: Adherence to
the law and to our own internal regulations. We have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of the principles of fair com­
petition, as well as for other violations of applicable law – and
where these do occur, we rigorously respond.
Our Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our compliance-related responsibilities. They are also an expression of our
values and lay the foundation for our own internal regulations.
Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all employees
worldwide.
Our Compliance System aims to ensure that all our worldwide
business practices are in line with these guidelines and in compliance with all applicable laws. To serve this purpose and provide
the Company with reliable protection against compliance risks,
our Compliance System has three pillars: Prevent, Detect and
­Respond. We are continuously working to further strengthen
compliance in our Company and to combat corruption together
with other organizations (Collective Action).

We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of
the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), which – like the ten principles of the United Nations
Global Compact – provide important guidance for our entire organization. At the end of 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was
elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / Corruption of
the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. Furthermore, he has been appointed Chairman of the B20 working
group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption during the German G20 presidency. We are also actively involved in
Global Compact. Our activities in the World Economic Forum include the Company’s participation in the Pact Against Corruption
Initiative.

COMPLIANCE PRIORITIES FOR FISCAL 2016 AND
ACHIEVEMENTS
Our compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing
­development and further improvement of our Compliance System. In this connection, we take into account and aim to fulfill
continuously evolving requirements in the compliance field,
which reflect both our own work and the changing market conditions and compliance risks of our business activities.
With effect from fiscal 2015, we defined the compliance priorities
as illustrated and briefly described in the figure below. These priorities, which have also guided our activities in fiscal 2016, are
supplemented by focus areas and activities for each fiscal year.

Foster Integrity
Support business management to meet its
responsibilities for compliance and further
strengthen the culture of integrity in our
­Company and beyond.

Foster
Integrity

Ownership
Culture

Risk &
age
a n r an c e
M Assu

Further intensify cooperation between the
Compliance Organization and our businesses
and reinforce our Compliance System’s
­market and customer focus.

liance Priorit
ies
mp
Co

Committ
e
Busine d to
ss

Committed to Business

Excellent Compliance Team

Continue providing our businesses with
the appropriate level of assurance within
our Compliance System.

Effective Processes
e

tiv
ec e
Eff cess
o
Pr

s

c
m elle
p
Te lian nt
am ce

Ex
Co

Provide an excellent compliance team through
a first-class learning and development landscape and close collaboration.

Manage Risk & Assurance

Continue to further optimize and streamline
our compliance processes.

Vision 2020

Facts and Figures

31

Achievements in fiscal 2016 include the consolidation of most of
the compliance-related company-wide internal regulations in one
comprehensive circular and the start of the integration of scorecards for gifts and hospitality into a new company-wide webbased application.
In the area of compliance in project execution, we have worked
on intensifying the identification of compliance risks on an on­
going basis together with further enhancing the collaboration
between our project managers and Compliance officers, for example, through joint performance of structured compliance risk
assessments for the execution phase of projects.
Using the potential of big data, we have introduced Business Partner dashboards together with related analytics for better support
of related risk management and monitoring of business partners.
As a major component of the learning and development landscape for the Siemens Compliance Organization introduced in
fiscal 2015, the first internal certification of compliance professionals has been successfully concluded.

COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT
Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process requires that CEOs
and managers in the Company – together with the relevant Compliance Officers – systematically determine and assess the compliance risks to their units on a regular basis.
Since fiscal 2014, the CRA has been performed in two different
ways:
In even-numbered years, the CRA process is performed for ’top-­
risk’ countries in order to complement the analysis at Lead
Country / Division level and in Healthineers with in-depth risk
assessments for selected countries. We identify these countries in advance based on an analysis of external and internal
compliance risks.
In odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the CRA
­process is performed at Lead Country / Division level and in
Healthineers.
As previously reported, in fiscal 2015, the CRA was performed for
the Divisions, Healthineers and Lead Countries. Accordingly, in
fiscal 2016, the CRA was performed for ’top-risk’ countries identified as described above. The CRA results have been incorporated
into the Group-level compliance risk analysis, which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring compliance risks to the

32

Facts and Figures

Company as quickly as possible. As well as the CRA results, this
analysis of the overall Group-level compliance risks takes into account, for example, the insights from compliance controls – the
ongoing assessment of the operation of our compliance processes
to ensure their effectiveness – and the results of case-related investigations.
The corporate compliance risks are derived from these consolidated results, which are then shared with the Company ’s businesses. As in the CRA process, relevant risks are reported to
Siemens’ Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and measures to
reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented.
The identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens entities worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk analysis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange during
the quarterly Compliance Risk Radar meeting.

BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS
Cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs
clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part of
Company operations and often essential in order to reach certain
areas of the market. At the same time, however, the Company
may be liable for the actions of these third parties.
Our mandatory process and tool for business partner compliance
due diligence is designed to help all Siemens entities conduct risk-­
based integrity checks of business partners. Transparent and riskoriented decisions about a business partner relationship are based
on high-quality compliance due diligence and – depending on
the risk level – audits of the business partners conducted by the
Siemens audit function or professional external service providers.
The management of each Siemens unit is responsible for the
unit’s use of business partners. This means that business partners
must be carefully selected and appropriately monitored and managed throughout the course of a business relationship.
As previously reported, we have introduced a common code of
conduct that both suppliers and business partners have had to
contractually commit to comply with since fiscal 2015. It has replaced the previous ’Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers’. Prior
to the introduction of the new code of conduct, our business
partners were obliged by the binding contract provisions to comply with principles of the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines.

COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE
PERCEPTION
One focus of our preventive measures under the Compliance System is to provide compliance training to all managers and employees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. In accordance
with the company-wide binding definition of these “sensitive
functions”, the Compliance Officers of the relevant company units
identify the managers and employees whose participation is required and ensure that they attend the training sessions. They
monitor and confirm the fulfillment of these requirements at
regular intervals.
Our company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of inperson and web-based training programs. The in-person training
programs also provide our employees with an opportunity to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work examples. The
third element of our compliance training portfolio is the annual
Integrity Dialog to maintain an ongoing and high awareness of
integrity and compliance topics at Siemens. The Dialog, which is
conducted across the entire Company, serves as a forum for managers to discuss recent compliance matters with their employees.
The assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the operating units and at Group level offers important indicators that help
us develop and define the focus of our training activities, in­
cluding the selection of themed modules for the annual events
held in conjunction with the Integrity Dialog. Our operating units
­address specific challenges by enhancing their training activities
with additional topics from their own businesses or by extending
the mandatory target groups for specific compliance training
­programs in their units. In this way, our training activities reflect
both Siemens-wide topics and the key topics specific to the operating units.
We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees
perceive the topic of compliance. Since fiscal 2010, this has been
an integral component of the company-wide Siemens Global Engagement Survey. As previously reported, the survey was carried
out in fiscal 2015. We consider the results as an indication of the
continued positive compliance perception of our employees. The
next survey is planned for fiscal 2017.

COMPLIANCE INDICATORS

Compliance indicators 1
Fiscal year
2016

2015

Compliance cases reported

675

568

Disciplinary sanctions

233

208

therein warnings

112

116

therein dismissals

96

79

therein other  2

25

13

1

Continuing and discontinued operations.

2

Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension.

The “Tell us” whistleblowing system and the Company’s ombudsman are two secure reporting channels that can be used by our
employees and external stakeholders to report violations of external and internal rules. Reports to these channels are passed on
to our Compliance Organization. Possible misconduct may also
be reported directly via the Managing Board or supervisors to the
Compliance Organization and, in particular, to the Compliance
Officers in our individual company units. Our employees regularly
make use of this reporting channel. In fiscal 2016, the total number of compliance cases requiring further inquiries or investigations reported via all the above-mentioned reporting channels
was 675. We believe that the increase from fiscal 2015 (568) is
within the normal range of variation.
The total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance violations in fiscal 2016 was 233 (fiscal 2015: 208). The disciplinary
sanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to the
compliance cases reported in the same period: Disciplinary sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which a case
was reported. This is due to the fact that a reported compliance
case has to undergo the Company’s entire internal case handling
process, from the mandating and performing of an internal investigation to the documentation of its results in an investigation
report that will form the basis for related disciplinary sanctions
and remediation measures.
Furthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for instance,
result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no disciplinary sanctions at all – because, for example, the employee concerned has
left the company for some other reason in the meantime. Therefore, here too, it is not possible to establish a direct correlation
between the number of reported compliance cases and the number and type of disciplinary sanctions implemented in a given
reporting period.

Facts and Figures

33

In our view, the detected compliance violations in our Company
in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our Compliance System has been properly designed and is being effectively
implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses and the environment and regional areas we work in, we do not regard the
number of such incidents as unusual.

EXTERNAL REVIEW OF SIEMENS COMPLIANCE
As previously reported, Siemens has retained the law firm Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP (“Gibson Dunn”) to conduct an independent
review and assessment of the implementation and operative effectiveness of Siemens’ anti-corruption policies, procedures, and
internal controls. Gibson Dunn summarized the scope, methodology, and results of its review in a report issued to the Company
dated November 15, 2015. See Sustainability Information 2015 for
further details.

COLLECTIVE ACTION AND SIEMENS INTEGRITY
INITIATIVE
If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption and
fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible must
act collectively. That is why we have joined forces with other
­organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical markets
through Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative.
The global Siemens Integrity Initiative was launched by Siemens
on December 9, 2009. It earmarks more than US$ 100 million to
support organizations and projects fighting corruption and fraud
through Collective Action, education and training. The initiative
focuses on supporting projects that have a clear impact on the
business environment, can demonstrate objective and measurable results, and have the potential to be scaled up and replicated. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of
the July 2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank
and the March 2013 settlement between Siemens and the European Investment Bank (EIB).

Within the first funding round – based upon the settlement with
the World Bank – 31 projects were funded with a total contractual
funding volume of US$ 37.7 million.
The second funding round was announced on June 27, 2013, and
the deadline for applications was August 29, 2013. We selected
projects which are to receive approximately US$ 35.6 million of
total funding over a period of three to five years. Related funding
contracts were concluded by the end of fiscal 2015.
Our compliance priorities described above will further guide us
and are specified by focus areas for fiscal 2017.
Measures planned for fiscal 2017 include the comprehensive review and optimization of compliance training programs for our
employees, further improvements of our business partner due
diligence and the start of the third funding round of the Siemens
Integrity Initiative.
The effectiveness of compliance at Siemens is based on the global
governance of our Compliance Organization and clear-cut reporting lines and close cooperation between our Compliance Officers
around the world and our company units. The other pillar of our
Compliance System – with its three action levels of Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the requirement that all Siemens managers
assume personal responsibility for compliance in their respective
units.
We will continue to further develop our compliance system in
order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of compliance. Our overall aim remains unchanged: We want to anchor
integrity permanently throughout our company in order to ensure
sound business decisions based on clear principles of integrity.

FURTHER INFORMATION AND LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS
For further information, please refer to:
COMPLIANCE RISKS ON PAGES 30–32

in

A. COMBINED MANAGEMENT

REPORT AND NOTE 21 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ON PAGES 84 F

in

B.6 NOTES

TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE SIEMENS ANNUAL REPORT 2016.

34

Facts and Figures

Corporate citizenship
Corporate Citizenship has been an integral part of Siemens since
our inception in 1847. While doing business in almost every country in the world, Siemens is deeply anchored in the societies in
which we operate in aiming to contribute to their sustainable
development. Corporate Citizenship is Siemens’ external, voluntary community engagement. The aim is to advance societies
by making our technology, our skills, our infrastructure and our
knowledge accessible to more people around the world. We strive
to create shared value for society, while at the same time strengthening our business. These activities can take on a variety of forms
ranging from philanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared
value or inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics in
India.

These three pillars form the basis of our Corporate Citizenship
Framework.
In fiscal 2016, we donated € 22.8 million globally, reflecting a decrease of approximately 14 % compared to the previous fiscal year.

Donations
Fiscal year
(in millions of €; in %)

2016

2015

Total

22.8

26.6

Share of net profit

0.4 %

0.5 %

Donations by category

Within our global Corporate Citizenship Framework, responsibility
for choosing and carrying out charitable and socially innovative
activities lies with the local units in each country. This ensures
that we provide support where it is needed most. We generate
business benefit by supporting local entities that are responsible
for initiating Corporate Citizenship activities. We seek to generate
shared value while applying high management standards.

Fiscal year
(in millions of €)

2016

2015

Education and science

16.0

16.1

Social

4.6

6.2

Environment

0.1

0.1

Arts and culture
Total

2.2

4.2

22.8

26.6

Our local engagement includes projects initiated by Siemens,
monetary or in-kind donations to partners, the contribution of
our knowledge, and employee volunteering.
Donations by region

Our citizenship commitment is driven by external global goals
such as the UN Sustainability Development Goals and is based on
our business strategy, core competencies and our Corporate Citizenship Principles. Referring to this we have defined three strategic focus areas of our Corporate Citizenship activities:

Fiscal year
(in millions of €)

2016

2015

Europe, C.I.S.,¹ Africa, Middle East

10.2

14.8

7.0

11.5

therein Germany
Americas
Asia, Australia

Access to Technology: We provide shared value through access to our core competencies in digitalization, automation,
electrification and scientific research.
Access to Education: We provide our knowledge to a broader
audience, especially in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) studies, and enable thought leadership.
We support educational and research activities, particularly in
natural sciences, engineering and heathcare.
Sustaining Communities: We strive to improve people’s living conditions. We therefore focus on social, cultural and educational contributions to the society. Our cultural commitment
is also part of our self-conception as a responsible corporation
that preserves values, generates creativity and provides inspiration for progress. In addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including financial and technical assistance after
natural disasters.

Total
1

10.1

9.3

2.5

2.5

22.8

26.6

Commonwealth of Independent States.

Facts and Figures

35

Annex
Reporting method
Sustainability is a fundamental principle for us, guiding our very
actions. Our “Sustainability Information 2016” supplements our
financial reporting in fiscal 2016. The reporting method provides
details of the underlying key elements on which our sustainability reporting is based.

REPORTING APPROACH
The “Sustainability Information 2016” (“the Report”) describes the
strategy, organization, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainability. It supplements our financial reporting in the Annual Report, following on from last year ’s reporting. It also serves as our
annual progress report on implementing the United Nations CEO
Water Mandate and sums up our performance with regards to the
10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore, our Report is guided by the G4 Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the recommendations of the Global Compact and Transparency International regarding anticorruption reporting. All key performance
indicators of the Environmental Portfolio are reported according
to the “Environment Portfolio Reporting Principles” included in
the Annex.

DATA COLLECTION
Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a
major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies throughout
the world are required to comply with local regulations concerning the compilation and definition of performance figures, which
means that the data generated is not always comparable. Where
applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a rule, no company-wide
standards exist for the information published in the Report. This
applies in particular to specific financial figures, including, for
example, the revenue attributable to the Environmental Portfolio.
As a result, these figures may not be comparable with the data
published under the same or similar designations by other companies. The data published in this Report is collected through
various internal reporting systems which, for the most part, are
different from those applicable for the financial information presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In particular, the
standards and controls applied and the computer systems used
during the preparation of the data may be less comprehensive in
comparison. We reserve the right to change our internal guidelines regarding the inclusion of data in the Report without prior
announcement. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Report may not add up precisely to the totals provided
and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

REVIEW PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARIES
This Report is based on activities carried out during Siemens’ fiscal 2016 (October 1, 2015 – September 30, 2016). Any exceptions
are indicated as such. In general, our fully consolidated companies are all covered by the Report. Here, too, possible exceptions
regarding the pool of data used are indicated. Minority equity
investments are not included in our reporting.

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REVIEW
We prepared our Report to high quality standards. Consequently,
as in previous years, we again commissioned an independent
accounting firm to conduct a limited assurance of the “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and figures” chapters of this Report.
You can find the results of the assurance by Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the Annex.

The indicators and information reported below relate to the Company’s continuing operations, unless indicated otherwise. In order
to ensure comparability of the details, those for the previous year
were adjusted accordingly with any exceptions duly indicated.

Annex

37

Environmental Portfolio
­reporting principles
ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO ­GUIDELINE
As there are currently no accepted international standards addressing the identification and reporting of “green” products, we
report the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in our Environmental Portfolio Guideline.
This Guideline sets out criteria and processes for the qualification
of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles and responsibilities as well as processes to account for annual customer
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and refers to financial reporting guidelines for recognition of revenue. It is based on the
Reporting Principles set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project
Accounting” issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
These principles are relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conservativeness. Revenue generated by
the Environmental Portfolio is recognized in accordance with
revenue recognition policies as described in
NOTE 2 in
B.6
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE ANNUAL RE-

Our Environmental Portfolio elements are typically long-lasting
products (e. g. motors) or infrastructure elements (power plants,
trains) that contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions not only in the reporting year but for many years. We therefore also calculate the accumulated annual customer reductions
of carbon dioxide emissions. The accumulated annual emission
reductions are calculated as customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by Environmental Portfolio elements installed in the current reporting period (see above) plus those elements installed since the beginning of fiscal 2002 that are still in
use at the customer. If elements installed in previous reporting
periods are no longer in use, they are no longer taken into consideration when calculating the accumulated annual customer
reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in the respective reporting period.
For the Environmental Portfolio elements installed in a given reporting period, we consider the reductions of carbon dioxide
emissions for the entire reporting period, irrespective of the actual date of installation during the year of first time recognition.

GOVERNANCE – PROCESSES AND ­D EFINITIONS
The qualification of our Environmental Portfolio elements as well
as the respective reporting is based on clearly defined processes
and criteria.

PORT OF THE SIEMENS GROUP (“SIEMENS”) AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2016 .

SCOPE OF REPORTING
To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key performance indicators are revenue and customer reductions of carbon dioxide
emissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio.
Carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers are calculated based on comparing the Environmental Portfolio element
(e. g. a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon dioxide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference solution (e. g. a
global average grid factor for power production). The annual reduction of carbon dioxide in the reporting year is calculated based
on technical parameters (e. g. the installed capacity in giga­watts
in the reporting year or load hours). For all Environmental Portfolio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual reductions are
added up to calculate the annual carbon dioxide emissions reductions at our customers at the end of that year.

38

Annex

In principle, products, systems, solutions and services of operating
units (Divisions and separately managed business Healthineers
of the Siemens Group) may qualify for the Environmental Portfolio. The entire Siemens business portfolio is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the appropriate qualification of Environmental Portfolio elements based on the criteria described hereafter.
This covers the inclusion of newly developed elements as well as
the integration of additionally qualified elements where evidence
of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was not available in prior
reporting periods. For additionally qualified Environmental Portfolio elements, we report their prior-year revenue and prior-year
contribution to the accumulated annual customer reduction of
carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis. Elements that
no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are excluded from our
Environmental Portfolio; prior periods are not adjusted.
Prior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new
Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel
internal evaluation process which includes reviews in the respective Siemens divisions as well as a review in the Sustainability
department.

Within this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of documentation supporting the fulfillment of the qualification criteria.
Furthermore, Siemens considers whether or not significant “adverse effects” exist. Adverse effects describe the situation that a
potential Environmental Portfolio element, despite fulfilling the
qualification criteria, might cause considerably higher environmental effects elsewhere in the element’s lifecycle. If material
adverse effects are known, the element is not included in the
Environmental Portfolio.
If the revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element cannot be accurately separated from our total revenue, the respective revenue will not be accounted for and reported due to the
principle of conservativeness. In fiscal 2016, revenue and carbon
dioxide emission reductions at our customers generated with the
in 2015 acquired business of Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (DresserRand), a supplier for the oil and gas industry, has not been included in the Environmental Portfolio due to the fact that the
evaluation process of the portfolio has not been finalized yet.

Service types are differentiated between “product-related service”
and “value-add service”. In cases in which a Siemens product,
system or solution qualifies as an Environmental Portfolio element, the revenue, and if applicable, the annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions of the “product-related service”
shall generally be accounted for and reported on in line with the
related Environmental Portfolio element. In cases of “value-add
services” the revenue and, if applicable, the annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions shall be accounted for and
reported on only if the service itself qualifies as an Environmental
Portfolio element by meeting one of the selection criteria as defined below.
To qualify for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an element must meet one of the following selection criteria. Products,
systems, solutions and services with planned application in military use or nuclear power are not included in the Environmental
Portfolio.

Energy efficiency
The Siemens Sustainability Board chaired by Siemens Managing
Board member and Chief Sustainability Officer Roland Busch annually acknowledges changes in the composition of the Environmental Portfolio. Another task of the Sustainability Board is to
discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to the inclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environmental
Portfolio.

CRITERIA FOR INCLUDING ELEMENTS IN THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO
An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system,
a solution or a service as defined above.
If all products, systems, solutions or services of a Siemens’ orga­
nizational unit meet one of the selection criteria, this unit may be
considered as an Environmental Portfolio element as a whole.
Furthermore, a core component of a system or solution may qualify as an Environmental Portfolio element, if the component provided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental benefits resulting from the system’s or solution’s overall application. This
means that the environmental functionality of the overall system
or solution cannot be achieved without the component provided
by Siemens. Examples of core components qualifying as elements
of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio are gear boxes for wind
turbines or thyristor valves for high-voltage direct current (HVDC)
power transmission systems.

The criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in energy
efficiency of 20 % or more during the customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or a reduction of at least 100,000
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per reporting period in
the customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline. If
an energy efficiency increase can only be reasonably defined as
reduction of dissipation losses (e. g. as defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards for energy efficiency classification of motors), a 20 % reduction of dissipation
loss would also qualify products for our Environmental Portfolio.
Examples of products and systems meeting the above mentioned
energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power plants, intelligent building technology systems (both reduce carbon dioxide
emissions by at least 100,000 metric tons per reporting period)
or ELFA Hybrid Drives for buses (20 % efficiency improvement).

Renewable energy
This criterion covers technologies in the field of renewable energy sources or smart grid¹ applications and their respective core
components. The scope of the renewable energy criterion is power
generation and heat generation from, for example wind power
(onshore and offshore), hydroelectricity or biomass.
Examples of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements are
wind turbines as well as core components such as gearboxes for
wind turbines.

1

 ccording to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Smart Grid Interoperability
A
Standards Project (USA), the term smart grid, “refers to a modernization of the electricity delivery
systems so it monitors, protects and automatically optimizes the operation of its interconnected
elements – from the central and distributed generation through the high-voltage transmission
net­work and the distribution system, to industrial users and building automation systems, to
energy storage installations and to end-use consumers and their thermostats, electric vehicles,
appliances and other household devices.”

Annex

39

DETERMINING THE REFERENCE SOLUTION –
BASELINE METHODS
Energy efficiency and annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide are all assessed by carrying out a comparison with a reference
solution (baseline). There are three different options for the reference solution: before-and-after comparison, direct-comparison
with a reference technology or comparison with the installed base.
The final decision as to which baseline is used is taken by the respective Division within Siemens based on the following options:

Before-and-after comparison
A before-and-after comparison refers to the difference between
an initial situation at the customer and the situation after installation of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. A before-­
and-after comparison implies the presence of a preexisting product, system, solution or service at the customer, the characteristics
of which are improved or substituted by the employment of a
Siemens product, system, solution or service. This comparison
may be applied, for example, in cases in which a Siemens product, system, solution or service modernizes a power plant or optimizes the energy consumption of a building.

Direct comparison with a reference technology
Direct comparison with a reference technology refers to the difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or service and either an appropriate single other technology or a predecessor. Direct comparison with a reference technology implies
the existence of one alternative or predecessor product, system,
solution or service in the market which is employed for the same
or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, by using low-loss high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power
transmission in comparison to conventional alternating current
power transmission.

Comparison with an installed base
Comparison with an installed base refers to the difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or service and an
average of several installations employed for the same or a similar purpose. Comparison with an installed base implies the existence of global or regional average data on several installed products, systems, solutions or services employed for the same or a
similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for example, to
combined cycle power plants (CCPP) by drawing a comparison
with the average global greenhouse gas emissions factor for electricity generation.

40

Annex

When calculating emission reductions compared to the baseline,
we consider either direct savings (e. g. by power plants or efficient
motors) or the indirect effects that occur when different products
in a system interact and create emission reductions (e. g. components for building automation). If Siemens only delivers core components but not the entire system, annual customer reduction of
carbon dioxide emissions will only be calculated for these parts.
The baselines are reviewed annually and, if necessary adjusted,
such as when statistical data on the installed base is updated
because of technical innovations or regulatory changes.
The calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is
based on a specific comparison for every relevant Environmental
Portfolio element with a baseline. For this calculation, we focus
on those elements that have a material impact on the overall carbon dioxide emissions reduction.

EMISSION FACTORS FOR CALCULATING THE
ANNUAL REDUCTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE
EMISSIONS
For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline reference
for the installed base is determined using known global emission
factors such as those for power production. The baselines used
for our calculations are mainly based on data from the International Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power production and for
grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, and our own assessments of power production efficiency.

Most relevant emissions factors applied in fiscal 2016 are:

Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation

Emission factor
(g/kWh)

Basis for comparison of Environmental ­Portfolio ­elements
(g CO2/kWh)

Global power generation all primary energy carriers

576

Power ­generation

Global power generation fossil energy carriers

854

Renewables

Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses)

624

All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains

Category

Source: IEA (IEA World Energy Outlook 2015) 1, own calculations
1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2015 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2014).

For consistency reasons, we generally apply global emission factors for calculating emission reductions unless specific conditions
of a solution require application of local emission factors. For
the calculation of annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide
emissions e. g. for wind turbines, we apply the emission factor
854 g / kWh of global fossil power production as the baseline.
Generally, our approach includes all greenhouse gases covered
by the Kyoto-Protocol. However, for power production and electrical applications, we consider the only relevant greenhouse gas
to be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur in technical applications, they are included in our calculations.
For some Environmental Portfolio elements, we do not know the
detailed parameters of use at our customers. We therefore apply
internal and external expert estimates for these, following the
principle of conservativeness.

REPORTING ESTIMATES
To date, there is no applicable international standard that applies
across companies for qualifying products, systems, solutions and
services for environmental and climate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the quantity of
reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to such products,
systems, solutions and services.
Thus, the inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio is
based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other companies and other stakeholders may view differently. Factors that
may cause differences, among others, are: choice of applicable
baseline methodology, application of global emission factors that
may be different from local conditions, use patterns at customers
that may be different from standard use patterns used for carbon
dioxide emission reduction calculations, assessment of the life
span of the Environmental Portfolio elements, internal assessments of our own power production efficiency factors, share of a
core component and expert estimates if no other data is available.
Accordingly, revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the
reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may
not be comparable with similar information reported by other
companies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emissions reduction in the period of installation of the Environmental Port­
folio element. The period of installation will be determined by
milestones or based on estimated construction periods. This may
differ from the timing of revenue recognition. Furthermore, we
subject revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions to internal documentation and review requirements which are less sophisticated than those applicable for our financial information.
We may change our policies for recognizing revenue from our
Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without prior notice.

Annex

41

GRI G4 key aspects and boundaries
Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects
No

1. Profit

1.1

We contribute to our customers’ ­competitiveness
with our products, ­solutions and services.

1.2

We partner with our customers to ­identify and develop sustainability related ­business opportunities.

1.3

We operate an efficient & resilient supply chain
through supplier code of conduct, risk management,
and capacity building.

Internal
­Boundaries

External
­Boundaries

GRI G4 Aspects

Customers

Economic: Economic Performance

own
­operations

Customers

Economic: Economic Performance

own
­operations

Suppliers

Economic: Procurement practices
Environmental: Supplier environmental assessment;
Grievance mechanism (environmental)
Labor practices: Supplier assessment for labor
­practices; Grievance mechanism (labor practices)
Human rights: Supplier human rights assessments;
Grievance mechanism (human rights)
Society: Supplier assessment (for impact on society);
Grievance mechanism (for impacts on society)

1.4

We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manage project and reputational risks and identify business relevant trends.

own
­operations

Customers,
Suppliers,
­Society

Economic: Economic performance; Indirect
­Economic Impacts

1.5

We adhere to the highest compliance & anti-­
corruption standards and promote integrity via the
Siemens Integrity Initiative.

own
­operations

Customers,
Suppliers,
­Society

Environmental: Compliance; Grievance
­mechanism (environmental)
Labor practices: Grievance mechanism
(­labor ­practices)
Human rights: Forced or Compulsory Labor; Grievance mechanism (human rights)
Society: Anti-Corruption, Anti-competitive behavior;
Grievance mechanism (for Impacts on society)
Product responsibility: Compliance

2. Planet

2.1.

We enable our customers to increase energy
­efficiency, save resources and reduce carbon
­emissions.

2.2

We develop our products, solutions and services
based on a life-cycle perspective and sound eco-­
design standards.
We minimize the environmental impacts of our own
operations by applying environmental management
programs and aim to become carbon neutral by 2030.

2.3

Customers

Environmental: Energy, Emissions

own
­operations

Customers

Environmental: Product and Services

own
­operations

Society

Environmental: Materials; Energy; Water; Emissions;
Effluents and Waste; Transport

Society

Economic: Indirect economic impacts

Product Responsibility: Product responsibility
and service labelling

3. People

3.1

3.2

42

We contribute to the sustainable development
of ­societies with our portfolio, local operations, and
thought leadership.

Society: Local communities

We foster long-term relationships with local societies
through Corporate Citizenship projects jointly with
partners.

own
­operations

Society

3.3

We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health
of our employees.

own
­operations

Suppliers

3.4

We live a culture of leadership based on common
­values, innovation mindset, people orientation
and diversity.

own
­operations

Annex

Economic: Indirect economic impacts
Society: Local communities
Labor practices: Occupational health and safety
Economic: Market Presence
Labor practices: Employment; Training & Education;
Diversity and equal opportunity;Equal remuneration
for women and men; Non discrimination

The detailed GRI G4 Index – Comprehensive Option
is available at our Sustainabiltiy website

United Nations Global Compact
Siemens has been member of the UN Global Compact since 2003
and is committed to upholding the Compact’s ten principles. Our
“Sustainability Information 2016”, our online Communication on
Progress at the UN Global Compact webpage and the following
report index, describes the progress we have made during fiscal
2016.

Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact
Principle

Systems

Measures

Achievements

Principle 1

Our Siemens Business Conduct
Guidelines (BCG) provide the
ethical and legal framework within
we ­conduct our b
­ usiness activities.
They contain our ­basic principles
and rules for our conduct internally
and externally, for example on
human rights core labor standards.
The BCG are mandatory for all
Siemens entities worldwide.
With our Code of Conduct (CoC)
for Siemens suppliers we ensure
that these basic rights and principles
are also observed in our supply chain.

Our Code of Conduct (CoC)
for Siemens suppliers and third
party intermediaries includes
besides other:
respect for basic rights of employees
strong “health and safety”
environmental protection
zero tolerance on bribery and
­anti-corruption

In the year under review, the number
of sustainability self-assessments
­added up to 4,218. We conducted 948
supplier quality audits with integrated
sustainability questions and 317
­external sustainability audits. In the
external sustainability audits, we
­identified a total of 7,068 potential
improvements. Serious deviations
such in ­areas of “health and safety for
­employees” were identified at eight
suppliers but were corrected by the
set deadline.

Support of
human rights

Principle 2
Exclusion of
human rights
abuses

Principle 3
Assurance of
freedom
of association

Principle 4
Elimination of
all forms
of forced labor

Principle 5
Abolition of
child labor

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
THIS REPORT, PAGE 20

We have implemented the tightened
process of the “Central Warning
­Message” which ensures a faster
and more effective reaction to major
breaches of the Code of Conduct
requirements.

Human Rights Risk assessment
principles are is integral part of
our project management and
risk management systems.
SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT PAGE 6

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
THIS REPORT, PAGE 20

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
THIS REPORT, PAGE 20

Principle 6
Elimination of
discrimination

We do not tolerate discrimination
and have anchored that in the
­Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. We actively foster diversity
within the Company by creating a
working environment that is open
to all people, independent of their
cultural background, heritage,
­ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender
identity and individual gender expressions. We are amongst signatories
of the “Charta der Vielfalt”.
EMPLOYEES
THIS REPORT, PAGE 12

Our global diversity networks promote
and discuss diversity topics across
the Company. These groups and programs include the Global Leadership
Organization of Women (GLOW),
­Diversity Ambassador and GENE, our
generation’s network to foster crossgeneration exchange. In addition, we
have over 140 local employee networks worldwide with employees
­actively engaged in diversity-related
programs and activities. The success
of all measures is assessed annually
in the diversity scorecard.
Diversity focus areas are:
	Consciously addressing Unconscious Bias
	Promoting Gender Balance
	Fostering the value of Globality
	Encouraging Diversity & Inclusiveness

Internationality of our workforce is
reflected in more than 170 different
national working at Siemens.
EMPLOYEES
THIS REPORT, PAGE 12

EMPLOYEES
THIS REPORT, PAGE 12

Annex

43

Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact
Principle

Systems

Measures

Achievements

Women
Empowerment

In fiscal 2016 we signed the CEO
Statement to underline our commitment to the Women Empowerment
Principles of the UN Global Compact.

We encourage the use of the Women
Empowerment Principles as guide
posts for actions that advance and
empower women in the workplace,
marketplace and community, and
communicate progress through the
use of sex-disaggregated data and
other benchmarks.

In the year under review, women
­accounted for 23 % of our total workforce. The proportion of female
­employees in management positions
at Siemens has risen continuously
in recent years and is now 15.6 %.
In fiscal 2016 women hired amounted 25 % of all new hires.

EMPLOYEES
THIS REPORT, PAGE 12

EMPLOYEES
THIS REPORT, PAGE 12

Siemens has an EHS management
­system in place to manage its environmental performance. All relevant
relevant production and office sites
are obliged to implement an environmental management ­system which
fulfills the requirements of the internationally recognized ISO 14001
standard as well as our own internal
standard “Specifications on environmentally compatible ­product and
system design”.

Our programs “Serve the Environment” (StE)” , “CO2 neutral Siemens”
and “Product Eco Excellence” address
all our material environmental
­impacts for industrial environmental
protection and product-related environmental protection respectively.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
THIS REPORT, PAGE 25

SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 8

In fiscal 2016, we reduced our CO2
emissions by 400,000 tons CO2 compared to the baseline in fiscal 2014
and thus we are well on track to
achieve our interim goal of 50 % reduction by 2020. In the year under
review, we already launched 11 energy efficiency projects with a total
­investment ­volume of € 32 mio. Furthermore, in June 2016 Siemens
moved into its new headquarter.
The new building consumes 90 % less
primary energy than its predecessor,
has a solar PV installation that covers
~30 % of its electricity demand and
achieved the highest level of “green”
building certification “LEED Platinum”.

SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 10

Principle 7
Precautionary
approach to
environmental
protection

Starting with fiscal 2016, we ­disclose
our Scope 3 upstream emissions
caused by purchased products and
services.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
THIS REPORT, PAGE 25

SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 8
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
THIS REPORT, PAGE 25

Principle 8
Specific initiatives
to promote
environmental
protection

Raising our employees’ awareness of
environmental and climate protection
is an element of both our environmental strategy and our social commitment. With internal communi­
cations measures and our corporate
citizenship focus on “environmental,”
we help create a greater sense of
­responsibility for ecological issues.
SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 10
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
THIS REPORT, PAGE 35

Siemens maintains a global environmental communications network
to ensure that knowledge about
­environmental management, methods, solutions and experiences is
communicated across locations,
­businesses and national borders.
For years, we are an engaged member of One Young World, the World
Business Council for Sustainable
­Development (WBCSD) and the World
Economic Forum.
SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 10

In the year under review, we donated
around € 22.8 million for corporate
citizenship activities, of which
€ 16 million went to education and
science and € 0.1 million to environmental activities. We continue to
support the “WEF Climate CEO” and
the “We mean business” initiatives
and Siemens took part at the Conference of Parties (COP 21) in Paris in
November 2015. where we promoted
Siemens contribution to mitigate
­climate change.
This year 50 delegates from Siemens
participated in the One Young World
conference in Ottowa.
SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 10
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
THIS REPORT, PAGE 35

44

Annex

Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact
Principle

Systems

Measures

Achievements

Principle 9

As part of our Environmental Portfolio, we develop and market products,
solutions and services that enable
our customers to reduce their CO2
emissions, lower lifecycle costs and
protect the environment.

We continuously review our portfolio
with regards to newly developed
or acquired portfolio elements that
qualify as Environmental Portfolio
­elements or exclude elements that
no longer fulfill our qualifications
­criteria.

In the year under review, our Environ­
mental Portfolio helped our customers and partners throughout the
world reduce their CO2 emissions by
60 million metric tons.

Development and
diffusion of
environmentally
friendly technologies

SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL
­P ORTFOLIO
THIS REPORT, PAGE 24

Principle 10
Measures against
corruption

The Siemens Business Conduct
Guidelines (BCG) provide the ethical
and legal framework within which
we conduct our business activities.
Our compliance system aims to ensure that all our worldwide business
practices remain within this framework as well as in compliance with
applicable laws. We have zero tolerance for corruption and violations
of the principles of fair competition –
and where these do occur, we rigorously respond. Our compliance
­system has three pillars: Prevent,
­Detect, Respond.
COMPLIANCE
THIS REPORT, PAGE 31

SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL
­P ORTFOLIO
THIS REPORT, PAGE 24

In fiscal 2015, we defined our compliance priorities:
	Foster Integrity
	Manage Risk and Assurance
	Effective Processes
	Excellent Compliance Team
	Committed to Business
These priorities have also guided our
activities in fiscal 2016 and are supplemented by focus areas and activities.
We actively support the enactment
of the UN Convention against Corruption and the OECD Convention on
Combating Bribery. Our Chief Com­
pliance Officer has been appointed
Chairman of the B20 Cross-­thematic
Group on Responsible Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption during the
German G20 presidency 2016/2017.
Activities in the World Economic
­Forum include the Company’s participation in the Partnering Against
­Corruption Initiative (PACI).
COMPLIANCE
THIS REPORT, PAGE 31

SUSTAINABILIT Y AT SIEMENS
THIS REPORT, PAGE 8
SIEMENS ENVIRONMENTAL
­P ORTFOLIO
THIS REPORT, PAGE 24

Achievements in fiscal 2016:
Consolidated the most compliance
related company-wide internal
­regulation in one comprehensive
circular and the start of the integration of scorecards for gifts and
hospitality into a new companywide web-based application.
	Start using Big Data, through Business Partner dashboards together
with related analytics for better
support of related risk management and monitoring of business
partners.
	Intensified the identification of
compliance risks and further
­enhanced the collaboration between our project managers and
Compliance officers, e g. by
joint performance of structured
compliance risk assessments for
the execution phase of projects.
In fiscal 2016 the total number of
compliance cases were 675.
COMPLIANCE
THIS REPORT, PAGE 31

Annex

45

United Nations Water Mandate
PROGRESS REPORT
Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water
Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water Mandate reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, managing
water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing solutions that help our customers and societies handle water and
waste water more economically.

Water re-use in United Kingdom
During the repair of a leaking drain at the site in Sudbury, the
Siemens worker noticed that the waste water looked remarkably
clean. Therefore they implemented the water treatment process
to use the “concentrated tap water” again for toilet flushing.

Water recycling in India
At the location of the Siemens works in Kalwa, India, a wastewater treatment system has been installed that would, for the most
part, regulate itself.

OUR OWN ACTIVITIES
For more information about the resource conservation and water
consumption at Siemens locations, see section Environmental
Protection THIS REPORT PAGE 25 . We are pursuing a new approach
to water resources management that was developed in 2012. At
locations where there are increased water-related risks – for example, as a result of aridity, high wastewater loads, or poorly
developed technical infrastructures – we define goals that are
matched to local circumstances. This enables us to effectively
reduce risks and negative impacts on the environment. With the
Siemens Water Strategy, we aim to reduce the local negative impact of our water use, taking water stress and other risks into
account, such as water pollution or flooding of environmentally
relevant areas.
We use all our resources carefully and avoid waste of resources
wherever it is possible. Amongst others through Leadership in
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for all our
new buildings including our new global headquarters in Munich,
where efficient use of water is a key element of building design
criteria. Through collection and usage of rainwater, the water
consumption of the new headquarters lies 50 % below guide values of new buildings. Further examples are:

Our Business Units offer solutions for drive technologies, energy
distribution and automation for water and wastewater treatment
plants and water transport.

OUR SUPPLIERS
The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill
are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The
responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For
more information on these requirements and on supply chain
management
THIS REPORT PAGE 20 .

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
As a member of various international organizations, we’re involved
in numerous initiatives and programs, including the ­Action 2020
Water Project of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. We initiate and implement projects in various regions
that promote efficient use of water.
In addition, the Siemens Stiftung drives an entrepreneurial approach to supply clean drinking water to communities. Project
example include:

Safe Water Enterprises
Optimized wells in Germany
The intelligent merging of several wells on the premises of the
Siemens Duisburg site has succeeded in saving 40,000 cubic meters of fresh water annually. This reduces water costs by 138,000
Euros.

With Safe Water Enterprises, Siemens Stiftung is committed to
a sustainable supply of safe drinking water in rural regions in
Kenya. In Kisumu, the two Safe Water Enterprise was officially
handed over to the communities and each are providing safe
drinking water to an average of 2,000 people each. It was built
in cooperation with our partners SOS Children’s Villages and
SkyJuice Foundation.
For more information with regards to the projects of the Siemens
Foundation, please refer to:
 WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/PROJECTS

46

Annex

Independent auditor’s limited
­assurance ­report regarding
­sustainability information
The assurance engagement performed by “Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft” ­relates exclusively to the German PDF-version of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and
“Facts and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2016”.
The following text is a translation of the original German Independent Assurance Report.

TO SIEMENS AG, BERLIN AND MUNICH
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts
and Figures” in the report “Sustainability information 2016” of
Siemens AG for the reporting period from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 (hereafter the report).
Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German PDF-version of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and
Figures” in the report in their entirety. Our engagement did not
include any prospective statements and links to other web pages.
The report is published as a PDF-version at
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/
INVESTOR/EN

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The legal representatives of Siemens AG are responsible for the
preparation of the report in accordance with the reporting criteria and for the selection of the information to be assessed. As
reporting criteria, the Company applies the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and,
for the key performance indicators of the Environmental Portfolio, the reporting principles as outlined in the Annex “Environmental Portfolio Reporting Principles” and the underlying criteria
set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard –
Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” issued
by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that
are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal
representatives are responsible for internal controls that they
deem necessary for the preparation of a report that is free from –
intended or unintended – material misstatements.

AUDITOR’S MEASURES TO ENSURE
INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY
We are independent from the Company in compliance with the
German statutory and professional requirements, and have complied with other professional requirements.
The quality assurance system of Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschafts­
prüfungsgesellschaft is based on the national statutory regulations and professional pronouncements including, but not limited to the Professional Charter for German Public Auditors and
German Sworn Auditors and the Joint Statement by the German
Chamber of Public Accountants and the Institute of Public Auditors on Quality Assurance in the Practice of Public Auditors VO
1 / 2006, which are in accordance with the International Standards
on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing and
­Assurance Standards Board (IAASB).

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information
in the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures”
in the report based on our work performed.
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance
with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by the
IAASB. This standard requires that we plan and perform the
­assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to
preclude that the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts
and Figures” in the report are not in accordance, in material respects, with the aforementioned reporting criteria. In a limited
assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are
more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and
therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend
on the auditor's judgment. This includes the assessment of the
risks of material misstatements in the report with regard to the
reporting criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the
following procedures:
Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy,
sustainability principles and sustainability management including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG.
Inquiries of employees responsible in the central Corporate
Development Strategy – Sustainability department for the
preparation of the sustainability reporting in order to assess
the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent
relevant for the limited assurance engagement.

Annex

47

Inquiries of employees responsible in the corporate departments for the topics employees, occupational safety and health
management, research and development, supply chain management, distribution and customer relations, environmental
portfolio, environmental protection, compliance and corporate
citizenship to assess the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the
limited assurance engagement.
Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and
processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustainability data in the reporting period and testing such documentation on a sample of basis.
Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of Divisions
and the separately managed business Healthineers regarding
the quality of the reported data.
Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of the sustainability data
from the topics environmental protection and occupational
safety during site visits
– at the location Olean (USA) of the Division Power and Gas,
– at the location Amberg of the Division Digital Factory,
–a
 t the location Frenstat (Czech Republic) of the Division
­Process Industries and Drives,
–a
 t the location Brande (Denmark) of the Division Wind Power
and Renewables,
– at the location Erlangen of Healthineers,
– at the location Munich of Siemens Real Estate
– as well as at the Divisions Power and Gas, Digital Factory,
Process Industries and Drives, Wind Power and Renewables
and the separately managed business Healthineers.
Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of the key performance
indicators of the Environmental Portfolio including the procedures for determining the qualification of products, solutions
and services for the Environmental Portfolio during site visits
at the Divisions Power and Gas, Power Generation Services,
Wind Power and Renewables and Process Industries and Drives.
Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the
Group’s headquarters, corporate departments, Divisions and
the separately managed business Healthineers and at the sites
visited on material qualitative statements in the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” as well as the
inspection of selected underlying documents.
Review of material qualitative statements in the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” for plausibility
and consistency.

48

Annex

CONCLUSION
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come
to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in
the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures”
of the report “Sustainability Information 2016” for the reporting
period from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 in its entirety
has not been prepared, in material respects, in accordance with
the reporting criteria.

INTENDED USE OF THE REPORT
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreement
with Siemens AG. The limited assurance engagement has been
performed for the purposes of Siemens AG and is solely intended
to inform Siemens AG about the results of the assurance engagement.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
The report is not intended to be used as a basis for (financial)
decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibility towards Siemens AG only. We do not assume any responsibility
towards third parties.
Munich, November 28, 2016
Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Spannagl
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Johne
Wirtschaftsprüferin
(German Public Auditor)

Notes and forward-looking
­statements
There is no standard system that applies across companies for
qualifying products and solutions for environmental and climate
protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective revenues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, revenues
from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be comparable
with similar information reported by other companies. Revenues
from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are derived from various internal reporting systems that are generally different from
those applicable to the financial information presented in our
Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in particular, subject
to less sophisticated internal documentation as well as preparation and review requirements, including the IT systems in use and
the general internal control environment. We may change our
policies for recognizing revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide
emissions in the future without previous notice.
This document contains statements related to our future business
and financial performance and future events or developments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,”
“look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,”
“estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may
also make forward-looking statements in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders and in press releases.
In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral
forward-looking statements.

Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many are
beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number of risks,
uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks in this
Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties
materialize, or should underlying expectations not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achieve­
ments of Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary materially
from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes
any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
This document includes – in the applicable financial reporting
framework not clearly defined – supplemental financial measures
that are or may be alternative performance measures (non-GAAP
measures). These supplemental financial measures should not be
viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens’ net
assets and financial positions or results of operations as p
­ resented
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework
in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Other companies that
report or describe similarly titled alternative performance measures may calculate them differently.
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other
documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and
percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
This document is an English language translation of the German
document. In case of discrepancies, the German language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version.

Annex

49

Further information and
­information resources

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE CONTENTS
IS AVAILABLE FROM:

FURTHER SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION

Adress

Phone
Fax
Email

50

Annex

Siemens AG
Wittelsbacherplatz 2
80333 München
Germany
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 33443 (Media Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 32474 (Investor Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 30085 (Media Relations)
+ 49 (0) 89 636 - 32830 (Investor Relations)
press@siemens.com
investorrelations@siemens.com
sustainability@siemens.com

The Siemens Annual Report 2016 is available online at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT

Further information on our commitment to sustainability and
additional sustainability-related indicators are available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y

Further information on research, development and innovation
at Siemens is available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION

© 2016 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich

siemens.com

