Annual Report 2016 / 2017

thyssenkrupp at a glance

O R D E R I N TA K E
in € million

T H YS S E N K R U P P I N F I G U R E S
(continuing operations)
2016 / 2017

Change in %
18

Order intake

€ million

42,756

Sales

€ million

41,447

9

Adjusted EBIT

€ million

1,722

15

Net income

€ million

271

– 24

€

0.37

– 32

Free cash flow before M & A € million

– 855

–

Net financial debt 1

€ million

1,957

– 44

tkVA 1

€ million

– 651

–

Market capitalization

€ million

15,613

30

€

0.15 2

–

Earnings per share

Dividend per share
1

Full Group

2

Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

42,756
Order intake in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year was the
best since the start of our Strategic Way Forward.

~ € 41.5
billion

6 regional HQs

79 countries
sales generated by thyssenkrupp
in fiscal 2016 / 2017

~ 2,000 locations
BUSINESS ARE AS

158,739
employees work every day to ensure thyssenkrupp
can implement unique projects.
(as at September 30, 2017)

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Materials
Services

Steel
Europe

Industrial
Solutions

At thyssenkrupp we work closely with our customers
to develop solutions for the digital age. From steering systems that permit autonomous driving to elevators that can move sideways to assembly lines for
battery modules – there are many examples of how
we as a diversified group are providing concrete
answers to the global questions posed by digitization,
urbanization and mobility. And key to what everyone
at thyssenkrupp does – from shop floor to boardroom – is sustainability.
In all our efforts to find new solutions, the most
important element is our people. They are what
makes the difference; with their curiosity, creativity
and intuition they are a unique asset, now and in
the future. We are convinced that we do things better
when we work together – in our own teams, with
customers and with partners.
We call it: engineering. tomorrow. together.

Yufeng Jiang

It takes great
people to
do great work.

Thomas Agbor

No idea should be discarded – at
least not until other people
have heard it.

Gülay Pircher

We know what is needed to make
progress – passion, thinking outside the
box, and of course: collaboration.

Nicole Narobe

It’s the “We” that
makes us different. It’s
the way we work together
that makes us better.

Dr. Andreas Meschede,
Innovation Manager

The aim is to make
strategic innovation
decisions.

The visionar y
For Andreas Meschede, thyssenkrupp’s digital future starts in
the analogue world. Up to his ankles in straw at a German farmyard, on the steamy streets of Singapore, or on the floor of a
conference room, surrounded by Lego bricks and people building with them: The physicist regularly works at places that help
him inspire thyssenkrupp employees to shift perspective in a
playful way. Meschede coordinates the Groupwide foresight
process, in which thyssenkrupp taps into the creativity of its
employees to develop future scenarios. “It’s not possible to
project or calculate the distant future in a straight line. We have
to allow ideas that go beyond what we can imagine today but are
still logically and physically possible.” Interdisciplinary collaboration is a key factor for the success of the innovation process.
With around 160 colleagues from all business areas, external
experts and lateral thinkers Meschede develops scenarios for
living and working further into the future. Megacities, mobility,
agriculture, air, water and energy are the themes they address.
According to Meschede, the central questions are: “What is

important in the long term, what can become established and
shape people’s lives? And what will our customers need from
us then?”
The “Future of production” is one theme with two fundamentally different assumptions: “What would happen if in 2030 we
had total data freedom and placed huge trust in machines? And
at the other extreme, what would happen if industry never
made it to 4.0 but was deliberately stopped at 3.5? What impact would that have on production and distribution?” According to Meschede, defining alternative scenarios allows us to
think ahead along more concrete lines and come up with solutions today that customers will need tomorrow. “The aim is to
make strategic innovation decisions that will culminate in new
projects, research and applications.”
So far around 270 ideas have been developed in this way. The
thyssenkrupp team working on the Industrial Data Space project
(see page on the right) has also taken part in the Foresight
process and produced initial results for Industry 4.0.

I.04

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

The data guardian
Industry 4.0, the linking of industrial production with modern
information and communications technology, is one of the most
important areas of development for strong, forward-looking
industrial enterprises. But without people like Mona Wappler,
companies would quickly get bogged down. “I want to make a
contribution to the digitization of thyssenkrupp,” she says. With
a background in economics she is helping the company gradually learn one of the key skills of the new information era: how
to share acquired data in the right way with the right partners.
As head of the Industrial Data Space project at thyssenkrupp,
she knows that anyone who loses control over their data will
also lose out in the race to digitization. The Industrial Data
Space ( IDS) aims to permit the secure exchange of data between companies while enabling them to maintain sovereignty
over their data. Anyone exchanging data in the Industrial Data
Space can define exactly which partner may use what data and
for how long. The Industrial Data Space research project and
the user association of the same name are driving the development of a standard for the safe and sovereign exchange of data.
Twelve Fraunhofer Institutes and more than 70 companies –
among them thyssenkrupp – are now on board.

It’s a challenge in which Mona Wappler’s perseverance, willingness to learn and analytical skills are a great advantage.
Because it is now time to test the IDS on real projects, such as
enhancing the efficiency of transportation and logistics at the
company’s steel plant in Duisburg. A new information system
connecting trucks and the plant records the position of the
trucks every ten minutes, calculates their arrival time in Duisburg and automatically suggests a new loading or unloading
slot to vehicles that are delayed. This information is shared via
the IDS.
“We’re still piloting the project, analyzing the first results and
processing what we learn,” says Wappler. Initial findings and
feedback from the logistics companies have been very promising. There has also been praise for the project from Reinhold
Achatz, Chief Technology Officer at thyssenkrupp and chairman
of the Industrial Data Space Association. “Our application is just
a first example of the possibilities offered by the Industrial Data
Space,” says Achatz. “It will quickly be followed by many more
applications from other companies.”

Dr. Mona Wappler,
Project Manager Industrial Data Space

I want to make a
contribution to the digitization
of thyssenkrupp.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

The customer champion
One thing Maximilian Muggenhamer needs to be able to do
r eall y well is lis ten. A s head of Road Tes t ing a t
thyssenkrupp, the job of the 33-year-old vehicle engineer
is to understand his customers and their needs.
“As a supplier of electric steering systems we create the
right steering and drive feel for each model. It involves an
intensive development process with our customers until
finally driving and steering feel the way they are supposed
to f e e l,” s ays Muggenhamer. A l t hough bas e d a t
thyssenkrupp’s Eschen site in Liechtenstein, he gets about
a lot: “Increasingly we are carrying out tests with our customers all over the world – from winter tests in Sweden to
hot climate testing in Arizona.” This close cooperation between customer and developer from the earliest stages
pays off, because a joint development process can be tailored exactly to provide the greatest customer benefit. Or

as Muggenhamer puts it: “For our customers we are both
advisor and sparring partner.”
As a chassis and steering specialist, thyssenkrupp creates
products that are deeply integrated in the overall car system. Long gone are the days when engineers like Muggenhamer were only involved in developing components. Important component suppliers like thyssenkrupp also need
to optimize the interplay of software and hardware in the
vehicle, for example to produce the right steering feel. “Intelligent” steering systems are also an important prerequisite for driver assistance systems such as park assist,
lane assist and distance warning systems.
With their work Muggenhamer and his colleagues are paving the way for the mobility of the future: thyssenkrupp’s
steer-by-wire system is an important prerequisite for autonomous driving.

Maximilian Muggenhamer,
Head of Road Testing

For our customers
we are both advisor and
sparring partner.

“We will only be successful if we really
think together.”

“We believe it takes a lot of great people
to do great work.”

Throughout its over 200-year history our company
has always helped shape change – in the first, second and third industrial revolutions. Digitization now
represents the fourth revolution. It is advancing rapidly and no-one knows exactly where it will lead. We
at thyssenkrupp are convinced that digitization will
present new opportunities. We have long been working with our customers on solutions for the future:
MULTI, steer-by-wire and additive manufacturing are
examples of our company’s innovative abilities. To
ma ke s u r e w e ke e p o n s ha p i n g t h e f u t u r e,
thyssenkrupp is establishing a culture that encourages everyone to take responsibility, share knowledge, and explore new paths together. Only in this
way will we fulfill our brand promise.

Digitization, demographic change, greater workforce
diversity – as companies we face numerous megatrends that in part will also bring about major changes in the world of work. We need to create the space
for flexibility and agility while at the same time providing a secure framework for our employees. That
will allow us to see dynamic change processes as an
opportunity, a basis for innovations. Key to this is a
culture and an understanding of leadership that provide the right balance between performance requirements and shared values. We are convinced that this
is the right way to attract the best and right people
to thyssenkrupp.

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger,
CEO

“We believe no-one will reach new
heights if they do not allow others to
challenge them.”
Credibility is our capital – in dealings with our customers, partners, employees, shareholders and the
general public. It’s the only way to build confidence
in our company and our abilities.
That’s why we expect our employees to speak out if
they believe transparency or our values and rules are
being threatened. In some cases that can also be a
challenge. But if we all share the same understanding
of what we at thyssenkrupp stand for, we can do it.
That’s our goal.

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann,
Chief Legal and Compliance Officer

Oliver Burkhard,
CHRO, Labor Director

“Our employees’ ideas are the platform
for profitable growth.”
We want to create sustainable value – for our customers, our shareholders and our employees. With
their energy and ideas, our employees create the
basis for long-term, profitable growth. For this it is
important that we have a clear focus in our businesses, speed up our processes and make our IT structure more efficient. That will give us the scope to
make investments in the future that will deliver sustainable benefits.
We will stick to this path rigorously. Only by evolving
further, having goals and not losing sight of them,
and having the courage to seize opportunities will we
be successful in the international marketplace.

Guido Kerkhoff,
CFO

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

Thinking the future of production At our TechCenter
Additive Manufacturing we print customized 3D parts in
metal and plastic.

Sporting research We are using our lightweight
demonstration vehicle Roding Roadster to test innovative
technologies for the future of driving.

246 meters of innovation With twelve shafts, the
test tower in Rottweil offers unique opportunities to
research the latest elevator generations.

Smart factory The digitally controlled processing
machine “M9” cuts steel with very high precision to
even the smallest sizes.

I.08

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

Strong presence At IAA 2017 thyssenkrupp
demonstrated its automotive innovations
and entered into dialogue with its customers
on the mobility of the future.

Making a dif ference
One thing’s for sure: The world is moving on. Digitization
in particular has already changed our lives fundamentally – and will continue to do so. So only those who think
ahead will achieve long-term success. That’s why today
thyssenkrupp is already developing solutions for tomorrow.
Take the transformation of the automotive sector, for
example. Over the past three years thyssenkrupp has invested more than a billion euros in its automotive division,
among other things for the development of a digital factory. Or intelligent mobility in cities and buildings: In the
246 meter test tower in Rottweil, which opened in December 2016, we research, develop and certify high-speed
elevators that enable cities to offer the best quality of life
worldwide. Or the opening of the thyssenkrupp TechCenter
Additive Manufacturing, where experts are pushing the
boundaries of traditional production processes.
For thyssenkrupp, these projects are not an end in themselves, they are a way of carefully finding out which
solutions will deliver sustainable growth. That’s something both our customers and our employees expect of
us. It’s the only way to give our best together and create
something great.

Mechanical colleague Industrial robots are already
taking over heavy-duty jobs from their human colleagues.
The next step at thyssenkrupp is human-robot collabo­
ration, where people and machines work hand in hand to
provide the best possible results.v

I.09

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

The disruptor
Markus Jetter wouldn’t say so, but he has made history. Or at
least he has helped his employer thyssenkrupp make history.
Jetter is head of product development in thyssenkrupp’s elevator division and part of the team that developed MULTI, the first
rope-free, sideways moving elevator. MULTI spells the end of
the monopoly held by conventional elevators – 160 years after
they were first invented. Using linear motor technology, it is now
possible for the first time to operate cabs vertically and horizontally in the same shaft. This will enable architects to come
up with more creative, taller and more user-friendly building
designs. The first MULTI system will be installed in the planned
East Side Tower in Berlin.
“The MULTI project presents me with new challenges in all areas
of my work as an engineer and a manager,” says Jetter. “New
technologies, new methods and processes also call for a new
way of thinking.” Mastering all this with an excellent and dynamic team of engineers was a fantastic experience.
Jetter’s work regularly takes him to another spectacular
thyssenkrupp project: the test tower for elevator innovations in
the southern German town of Rottweil. The spiraling fiber glass
shell of the tower gives it a fascinating appearance, while the

12 elevator shafts in the interior allow elevator solutions of the
future to be tested. Here, Jetter can do what he likes best:
Researching and testing technologies and applications with his
team of engineers. The latest project brings together MULTI and
MAX . MAX is the first big data solution for the preventive maintenance of elevators. thyssenkrupp developed the system in
teamwork with Microsoft. Sensors in the elevators send data to
the cloud, where the remaining lifetime of key components and
systems is calculated to determine where maintenance is required. Anything unusual is reported to service technicians so
that problems can be eliminated before they occur. The aim is
to reduce elevator downtimes by around 50 percent – and in so
doing also reduce maintenance costs for customers.
Markus Jetter recognizes the potential of this development, in
particular in combination with a product like MULTI: There’s no
point getting machines to generate and process huge amounts
of data if they do not form the basis for new insights, structures
and business models. So Jetter and his team are working to
use online data storage, connected machines and a new technology to develop a disruptive innovation that is exciting the
entire sector.

Markus Jetter,
Head of Product Development

Technical challenges
are best met with a dynamic
team of engineers.

Dr. Steffen Schwartz-Höfler,
Senior Manager Sustainability Strategy, Reporting & Ratings

I’d rather be somewhere
I can make a difference.

The ideas man
Steffen Schwartz-Höfler can still clearly remember the minutes
before his job interview. It was February 2008, and the sustainability expert stood in the cold rain looking at the Duisburg steel
mill and asked himself: “Am I doing the right thing?” Back then
the industrial group still had a negative environmental image,
was seen as “old” industry and was struggling to achieve effective sustainability. But despite all that Schwartz-Höfler – 34
years old with a trademark pale green suit – has never regretted
joining thyssenkrupp: “I’d rather be somewhere I can really
make a dif ference.” And thanks to people like Stef fen
Schwartz-Höfler, thyssenkrupp began to successfully change
the way it thought and acted.
Today Schwartz-Höfler, who has a PhD in political science, is
part of thyssenkrupp’s Technology, Innovation and Sustainability
team. With his colleagues he develops and supports the company’s sustainability strategy. He is more than happy to reel off
examples of how awareness in the company has changed. “Today
a product like EnviNOx, which neutralizes harmful nitrous oxide
in fertilizer production, is part of our core business.” Or take the

Carbon2Chem project, in which CO 2 is converted chemically into
a raw material. “It takes courage to even try that out!” Or what
about the great strides made in energy efficiency... These efforts
have also attracted the attention of neutral experts: In 2017 the
non-governmental organization CDP included thyssenkrupp on
its Climate A List of the world’s most climate-friendly companies
for the second time – something CEO Heinrich Hiesinger is keen
to mention in his speeches.
From climate protection and innovations to health & safety,
employee satisfaction and long-term profitability – the subject
of sustainability covers a broad area at thyssenkrupp. “The
exciting thing about sustainability is that it can be related to
almost every aspect of the Group,” says Schwartz-Höfler. A
keenness to discuss things and understand new areas is vital
for the job – and sometimes it calls for a fair bit of patience
when it comes to changing existing processes. “We’re still far
from perfect,” says Schwartz-Höfler. “But thanks to our joint
efforts thyssenkrupp has already become a better company.
And we’re working hard to improve even more.”

I.11

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Magazine

Sanja Velten,
Apprentice

Right now I’m learning how to
operate digital systems. One day I’d
like to understand how they work.

The knowledge-seeker
Deep in concentration, Sanja Velten sits at her PC and enters
commands on the keyboard. The virtual machine on her monitor starts to move. Sanja (20) is a third-year apprentice toolmaker at thyssenkrupp System Engineering in Lockweiler.
Learning and using programming languages is an important
part of her training. Later, when she has perfected the commands
she is currently giving to her animated friend, she will work with
computer-controlled machines in the apprentice workshop.
In manufacturing operations – such as those in Lockweiler for
the production of tooling for the automotive sector – digitized
and automated processes are steadily growing in importance:
Robots are not replacing humans but helping them, working
side by side in the same production shop, on the same production line. Collaboration with these machines, which weigh
hundreds of kilograms, is increasingly becoming an everyday
occurrence for Sanja Velten and her colleagues and making
many things easier.

Robots are the ideal solution when very heavy parts have to be
lifted every couple of minutes. But slotting an intricate part into
a very small opening calls for human dexterity. And human skills
are also called for when it comes to optimizing and programming
the steel colleagues.
“Right now I’m learning how to operate digital systems,” says
Velten. “But one day I’d like to understand exactly how they
work.” When we ask the apprentice what she wants to achieve
with her work, she sets the bar high: “I’d like to help use new
technologies and play a part in shaping the future.”
Whether it’s in development, production or sales, an industrial
group like thyssenkrupp needs employees who are prepared to
face the challenges of the future, perform their work with passion, and have the courage to do something new. It’s people like
this that make the difference. Every innovation starts with human creativity and curiosity. And central to our innovations and
developments are the needs of our customers. We are a catalyst
for their transformation. engineering. tomorrow. together.

I.12

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Contents

Contents
I.1
I.4
I.5
I.6
I.7
I.8
I.10
I.11
I.12

Magazine
The visionary
The data guardian
The customer champion
Statements by the Executive Board
Making a difference
The disruptor
The ideas man
The knowledge-seeker

1
2
3
7
8
10
16
29

To our shareholders
Letter to shareholders
Executive Board
Supervisory Board
Report by the Supervisory Board
Corporate governance
thyssenkrupp stock

2
32
33
33
41
78

Combined management report
Preliminary remarks
Fundamental information about the Group
Report on the economic position
Annual financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG
82 Technology and innovations
85 Environment, climate and energy
87 Purchasing
89 Employees
95 Compliance
97 Subsequent events
98 Forecast, opportunity and risk report
122 Legal information

3
131 Consolidated financial statements
132 Consolidated statement of
financial position
134 Consolidated statement of income
135 Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
136 Consolidated statement of
changes in equity
137 Consolidated statement of cash flows
139 Notes to the consolidated financial
statements
212 Independent Auditors’ Report
220 Responsibility Statement

4
221 Additional information
222 Multi-year overview
224 Other directorships held by
Executive Board members
225 Other directorships held by
Supervisory Board members
227 Glossary
229 Contact and 2018 / 2019
financial calendar

Our fiscal year begins on October 1 and ends on
September 30 of the following year.

I

1

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
To our shareholders

To our shareholders

3
7
8
10
16
29

Letter to shareholders
Executive Board
Supervisory Board
Report by the Supervisory Board
Corporate governance
thyssenkrupp stock

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

Letter to shareholders

thyssenkrupp steer-by-wire concept vehicle // Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, CEO

The past fiscal year 2016 / 2017 was a year of major decisions. We sold the Brazilian steel mill CSA
and signed a memorandum of understanding with Tata Steel on a joint venture for our European
steel activities. These were two important milestones on thyssenkrupp’s Strategic Way Forward
towards becoming a diversified industrial group. With the capital increase in September we
increased our financial leeway. Overall we exceeded our growth and earnings targets for the
2016 / 2017 fiscal year. At the same time improving our free cash flow remains an ongoing task.
We also underpinned our brand promise with compelling milestones in the past fiscal year and
further increased our spending on research and development:

3

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

■ Engineering. An impressive demonstration of our innovative abilities and engineering expertise

is our new test tower in Rottweil. Since August 2017 we have been using it to present elevator
solutions of the future to our customers.
■ Tomorrow. In 2017 the non-governmental organization CDP included thyssenkrupp on its

Climate A List of the world’s most climate-friendly companies for the second time.
■ Together. At this year’s IAA International Motor Show thyssenkrupp presented itself with several

of its business areas as an innovative partner to the international auto industry. We
demonstrated solutions such as electric power assisted steering systems, steer-by-wire solutions
and adaptive damper systems that pave the way for autonomous driving.
Alongside these investments in the future there were two business decisions in the past fiscal year I
would like to look at again in more detail. In February we reached agreement with Ternium on the
sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA. With the closing in September 2017 we not only brought the
loss-making chapter of “Steel Americas” to an end but also offered the business and its employees
the key to a sustainable future. At the same time we reduced future risks for thyssenkrupp as a
whole and opened important options for our European steel business. Conditions for our materials
businesses continue to be challenging. Demand for steel in Europe is lacking momentum, while
supply is characterized by structural overcapacities that lead to underutilization in parts of the value
chain. Upcoming regulatory decisions carry additional risks. To date there has been no change to
this situation.
Only with substantial consolidation in the European steel industry will we succeed in addressing
these structural problems. That is why in September 2017 we signed a memorandum of
understanding with Tata Steel to combine our European steel activities in a 50/50 joint venture. A
joint venture with Tata is the best strategic option for thyssenkrupp. For you as shareholders,
because it will create substantial added value through synergies and offer further value growth
potential. For employees, because we are creating a strong new number 2 in Europe, which will
finally provide clarity and safeguard tens of thousands of jobs over the long term. For the steel
business, because it will address the structural problems and, despite necessary cutbacks, offer
the business a sustainable future. And for thyssenkrupp as a whole, because it will further reduce
our dependency on the volatile steel business.
We still have some way to go before the start of the joint venture: In parallel with an intensive due
diligence process, we have to agree the details of our future collaboration. For this we entered
into talks with the employee representatives immediately after signing the memorandum of
understanding. It is part of our tradition and our understanding of our role as a responsible
employer to work towards good solutions with the employees.
We aim to sign an agreement with Tata in early 2018. With the approval of the regulatory
authorities, the transaction is to be closed at the end of 2018. From this time the steel business
would no longer be included on our balance sheet. This would result in a significant improvement
to key balance sheet ratios for thyssenkrupp, particularly our equity ratio and gearing, the ratio of
net financial debt to equity. So with the planned joint venture we are not only shaping the future of
steel but also improving the outlook for our capital goods businesses.

4

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

However, it will take time for the positive effects to feed through to our balance sheet. We intend to
use this time to further strengthen our capital goods businesses. For this reason at the end of the
past fiscal year we increased the company’s capital stock by 10%. This increased our financial
leeway, allowing us to support the organic growth of our capital goods businesses in the key areas
of digitization, urbanization, mobility and service, and at the same time accelerate necessary
restructuring initiatives.
This is fully in line with the aim of our Strategic Way Forward of enabling optimum development of
all business areas so as to strengthen the performance of the Group as a whole. To this end we
have defined clear targets based on sector benchmarks for each business area. All our units are
working on concrete measures to achieve these targets and made significant progress again in the
past fiscal year:
Components Technology further increased its adjusted EBIT margin to 5%, taking it ever closer to
its target range of 6% to 8%. The growth drivers are future trends such as autonomous driving,
electric vehicles and digitized manufacturing, which open up enormous opportunities for us as an
automotive supplier. Elevator Technology also succeeded in further increasing its adjusted EBIT
margin to now 12%. In this area too we are systematically investing in new technologies such as
MULTI, the world’s first rope-free, sideways-moving elevator, which is meeting with very great
interest worldwide. In our third capital goods division, Industrial Solutions, the slump in orders from
the prior year weighed heavily on earnings and margin but the restructuring introduced under our
“planets” transformation program is taking effect. The clear upturn in order intake shows that the
business area has passed its lowest point.
Thanks to an increase in materials prices, Materials Services more than doubled its adjusted EBIT
year-on-year. After successful restructuring, our Italian stainless steel subsidiary AST made a
positive contribution to this. Steel Europe, too, profited with a time lag from much higher prices on
the flat steel market. In conjunction with the measures initiated to safeguard income, earnings
improved significantly.
Overall we exceeded our earnings targets for the past fiscal year. This is true of both the Group as a
whole with adjusted EBIT of €1,910 million and the continuing operations (without Steel Americas)
with adjusted EBIT of €1,722 million. Once again our Groupwide efficiency program “impact”
played a key role in this. At Group level we again clearly exceeded our €850 million target with
savings of €930 million. That we are reporting a net loss is due to the sale of the Brazilian steel mill
CSA. This transaction led to a negative earnings effect of €0.9 billion. However, with the closing of
the transaction in September 2017 we received a clear cash inflow which significantly reduced our
net financial debt and improved our balance sheet ratios.
In view of the strategic progress and our further operating improvement under the Strategic Way
Forward, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board will propose the distribution of a dividend of
€0.15 per share to the Annual General Meeting. We consider this an appropriate and economically
justifiable payment. The proposal also takes into account the expected further improvement in our
key financials, particularly a further significant increase in earnings with clearly positive net income.

5

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

I would particularly like to take this opportunity to express thanks to our more than 158,000
employees around the world. It was not an easy year. It was a year with numerous uncertainties
and profound changes. Together as a team we clearly improved our operating KPIs and made
significant progress on our way to becoming a diversified industrial group.
A year of major decisions will now be followed by systematic implementation of the measures
initiated, with a positive impact on our key figures. For the current fiscal year we aim to achieve a
strong increase in adjusted EBIT to €1.8 billion to €2.0 billion.
Thank you for your trust and support.
Yours,

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
Chief Executive Officer
Essen, November 2017

6

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Executive Board

Executive Board

Oliver Burkhard
*1972 | Responsible for Human Resources, Labor
Director | Appointed until January 2021

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
*1960 | Chairman | Appointed until September 2020

Guido Kerkhoff
*1967 | Responsible for Finance | Appointed until
March 2021

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann
*1962 | Responsible for Legal & Compliance |
Appointed until January 2022

Résumés of the Executive Board members can be
found at
thyssenkrupp.com > Company > Management > Executive Board

7

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board
Members of the Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Düsseldorf

Ernst-August Kiel, Blumenthal

Chairman // Member of the Shareholders’ Committee

(until January 31, 2017)

of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Fitter // Chairman of the Works Council of thyssenkrupp Marine

Appointed until 2020 // German

Systems GmbH (Kiel) // Chairman of the General Works Council of
thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH // Chairman of the Works

Markus Grolms, Frankfurt/Main

Council Union Industrial Solutions

Vice Chairman // Trade union secretary at IG Metall

Appointed until 2017 // German

Appointed until 2019 // German

Dr. Norbert Kluge, Ratingen
Achim Hass, Kiel

Diplom-Sozialwirt // Head of Codetermination Support Department at

(since February 7, 2017)

the Hans Böckler Foundation

Power electronics technician // Chairman of the Works Council of

Appointed until 2019 // German

thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH (Kiel) // Chairman of the
General Works Council of thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH //

Tekin Nasikkol, Ratingen

Vice Chairman of the Works Council Union Industrial Solutions

Bachelor of Arts (Business Administration) // Vice Chairman of the

Appointed until 2019 // German

Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG (Duisburg-Hamborn)
// Vice Chairman of the General Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel

Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Frankfurt/Main

Europe AG // Vice Chairman of the Group Works Council of

Member of the Executive Board of KfW Bankengruppe

thyssenkrupp AG

Appointed until 2020 // Austrian

Appointed until 2019 // German

Susanne Herberger, Dresden

Dr. Ralf Nentwig, Essen

Engineer (FH) – information technology // Chairwoman of the Works

Member of the Executive Committee of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen

Council of thyssenkrupp Aufzüge GmbH (Dresden) // Chairwoman of

und Halbach Foundation

the Works Council Union Elevator Technology // Vice Chairwoman of

Appointed until 2020 // German

the Group Works Council of thyssenkrupp AG

René Obermann, Berlin

Appointed until 2019 // German

Partner at Warburg Pincus LLC

Tanja Jacquemin, Frankfurt/Main

Appointed until 2020 // German

Dipl.-Kauffrau // Head of the Company Policy and Codetermination
Department at IG Metall

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens, Bochum

Appointed until 2019 // German

Professor of Business Studies and International Accounting,
Ruhr University Bochum

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, Essen

Appointed until 2020 // German

Former Chairman of the Executive Board of Hochtief AG

Peter Remmler, Wolfsburg

Appointed until 2020 // German

Wholesale and export trader // Chairman of the Works Council of
thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH (Braunschweig) // Chairman of the
Works Council Union Materials Services
Appointed until 2019 // German

8

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Supervisory Board

Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow, Düsseldorf

Jens Tischendorf, Zurich

CEO of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG

Partner and Director of Cevian Capital AG

Appointed until 2020 // German

Appointed until 2020 // German

Wilhelm Segerath, Duisburg

Friedrich Weber, Schöndorf

Automotive body maker // Chairman of the Group Works Council of

Machine setter // Chairman of the General Works Council of

thyssenkrupp AG

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH // Chairman of the Works Council Union

Appointed until 2019 // German

Components Technology
Appointed until 2019 // German

Carsten Spohr, Munich
Chairman of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Isolde Würz, Mülheim/Ruhr

Appointed until 2020 // German

Attorney // General Counsel and Head of Governance, Corporate
Function Legal at thyssenkrupp AG

Dr. Lothar Steinebach, Leverkusen

Appointed until 2019 // German

Former member of the Management Board of
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
Appointed until 2018 // German

Supervisory Board Committees
Executive Committee

Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Dr. Lothar Steinebach (Chair)

Markus Grolms

Markus Grolms

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Susanne Herberger

Wilhelm Segerath

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner

Mediation Committee under § 27 (3) Codetermination Act

Peter Remmler

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Wilhelm Segerath

Markus Grolms

Jens Tischendorf

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Nomination Committee

Wilhelm Segerath

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Personnel Committee

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Dr. Ralf Nentwig

Markus Grolms

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel
Wilhelm Segerath

Audit Committee
Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens (Chair)
Markus Grolms
Tanja Jacquemin
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
Dr. Ralf Nentwig
Wilhelm Segerath

9

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

Report by the Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Dear Shareholders,
In the following I would like to inform you about the work of the Supervisory Board and its
committees in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year:

Cooperation between Supervisory Board and Executive Board
In fiscal year 2016 / 2017 the Supervisory Board again regularly advised the Executive Board on
the management of the Company and continuously supervised its conduct of business. We
satisfied ourselves that the Executive Board’s work complied with all legal and regulatory
requirements at all times. The Executive Board fulfilled its duty to inform and furnished us with
regular written and verbal reports containing up-to-date and comprehensive information on all
issues of relevance to the Company and the Group relating to strategy, planning, business
performance, the risk situation and compliance. This also included information on variances
between actual performance and previously reported targets as well as on budget variances
(follow-up reporting). In the committees and in full Supervisory Board meetings, the members of
the Supervisory Board always had ample opportunity to critically examine the reports and
resolution proposals submitted by the Executive Board and contribute suggestions. In particular,
we discussed intensively and examined the plausibility of all transactions of importance to the
Company on the basis of written and verbal reports by the Executive Board. On numerous

10

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

occasions the Supervisory Board dealt at length with the risk situation of the Company, the liquidity
planning and the equity situation. Thanks to an analysis of the value potential of the Group’s
businesses and the opportunities and risks of strategic steps, critical operating issues were
presented to the Supervisory Board in a clear and differentiated way. Where required by law, the
Articles of Association or the rules of procedure for the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board
provided its approval of individual business transactions.
In the periods between meetings, the Supervisory Board Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit
Committee and the Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee engaged in a close and regular
exchange of views and information with the Executive Board and were informed about major
developments. The Supervisory Board Chairman and Audit Committee and Strategy, Finance and
Investment Committee Chairmen reported on important findings immediately in the following
Supervisory Board or Committee meeting.
Before the Supervisory Board meetings the shareholder and the employee representatives each
held separate meetings to discuss the agenda items. Before two meetings of the Supervisory
Board’s Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee, a conflict of interest was disclosed in each
case by one member. In the meetings transactions were discussed involving contractual partner
companies at which the Supervisory Board member in each case holds a comparable supervisory
board seat. The member did not take part in these discussions and abstained from voting. As a
precaution the confidentiality of the content of the meetings was again called to the attention of all
members of the committee. Further conflicts of interest of Executive Board and Supervisory Board
members, which must be disclosed to the Supervisory Board immediately, did not occur.

Supervisory Board meetings
Five Supervisory Board meetings were held in the reporting year. The average attendance rate at
the meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees was 97%. No Supervisory Board
member attended fewer than half the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the relevant
committees. The members of the Executive Board took part in the Supervisory Board meetings
unless otherwise determined by the Supervisory Board Chairman.
In its first meeting in the reporting year on November 23, 2016 the Supervisory Board dealt firstly
with the business and earnings situation in fiscal year 2015 / 2016. A further item on the agenda
focused on the parent-company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 2016. On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and after discussion with
the auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC), the
Supervisory Board approved the consolidated and parent-company financial statements for the
2015 / 2016 fiscal year. Further, the corporate and investment planning for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year was adopted. We also discussed and adopted the agenda for the Annual General Meeting on
January 27, 2017 and addressed Executive Board matters.
On January 26, 2017, the day before the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory Board members
convened for a meeting in which the Executive Board first reported on the situation of the Group.
Other topics were the next day’s Annual General Meeting, questions relating to Executive Board
compensation, and a detailed report on the activities and strategy of the Industrial Solutions
business area, which was subsequently discussed by the full Supervisory Board.

11

97%
Average attendance rate at
Supervisory Board and committee
meetings was 97%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

On February 21, 2017, the Supervisory Board addressed the status of negotiations on the sale of
the thyssenkrupp Companhia Siderúrgica do Atlântico (CSA) steel mill and approved the sale to
Ternium. In the meeting on May 17, 2017 the Group’s business situation and Strategic Way
Forward were discussed on the basis of a comprehensive report by the Executive Board. Further
topics were the 2016 EMIR compliance audit pursuant to § 20 WpHG, the implementation of the
governance@thyssenkrupp project in the Group, the status of the acquisition of Atlas Elektronik,
the handling of the sale of CSA, and Executive Board matters, including the establishment of a new
target for the share of women on the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG.
In the Supervisory Board meeting on September 23, 2017 the Group’s operating situation and
Strategic Way Forward with particular reference to the business areas were again central topics.
The focus was on thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG’s planned joint venture with Tata Steel and the
memorandum of understanding signed on the project. As in previous years, current developments
in corporate governance were again addressed at this year’s September meeting. After reviewing
observance of the recommendations and suggestions of the Corporate Governance Code, as
amended on February 7, 2017, the Supervisory Board resolved to issue an unqualified declaration
of conformity. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board’s joint declaration of conformity has
been permanently available on the thyssenkrupp website since October 1, 2017. In addition, the
Executive Board – also on behalf of the Supervisory Board – reports on corporate governance at
thyssenkrupp in the corporate governance report and the corporate governance statement.
The Supervisory Board training program includes tours of the Group’s production sites to provide a
direct impression of production conditions and the work of management at local level. In this
connection the Supervisory Board visited the Steering business unit, a plant of the Components
Technology business area in Eschen/Liechtenstein on June 23, 2017.
At thyssenkrupp compliance is a central component of good corporate governance and means
much more than just abiding by the law: At thyssenkrupp compliance is a question of mindset. For
this reason at each of its meetings the Supervisory Board obtained a report on compliance from the
Executive Board and discussed the strategic compliance measures at thyssenkrupp.

Report on the work of the committees
The primary task of the Supervisory Board’s six committees is to prepare decisions and topics for
discussion at the full meetings. The Supervisory Board has delegated decision-making powers to
the committees where this is legally permissible. The powers of the committees and the
requirements on committee members are set out in the rules of procedure for the respective
committees. The chairmen of the committees provided the Supervisory Board with regular detailed
reports on the work of the committees in the reporting year. With the exception of the Audit
Committee and the Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee, all committees are chaired by the
Supervisory Board Chairman. The compositions of the six committees are shown in the section
“Supervisory Board”.
The Executive Committee (Praesidium) met six times in the past fiscal year. In addition to preparing
the full Supervisory Board meetings, the main subjects of deliberation were the financial position
and earnings performance of the Group, the strategic development of the individual business areas,
and the Groupwide projects to optimize effectiveness, efficiency and performance. As chairman of
the committee, I was also in close contact with the other members of the Executive Committee
outside meetings to agree on special projects.

12

6
Six Supervisory Board committees
prepare decisions and topics for the
full meetings.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

The Personnel Committee held five meetings in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year to prepare the personnel
decisions of the Supervisory Board. Where required, resolutions were passed or recommendations
for resolutions were made to the Supervisory Board. The meetings addressed general Executive
Board matters and – in fulfilment of our duty of care – succession planning. In addition, proposals
for establishing the performance bonus and additional bonus and the structuring of pensions for
the members of the Executive Board were dealt with. Details of Executive Board compensation are
presented in the compensation report.
The Audit Committee met seven times in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year. Alongside Executive Board
members, the meetings were also attended by representatives of the auditors PwC, who were
elected by the 2017 Annual General Meeting and subsequently appointed by the Audit Committee.
The auditors declared to the Audit Committee that no circumstances exist that could lead to the
assumption of prejudice on their part. The Audit Committee obtained the required auditors’
statement of independence, reviewed their qualification, and concluded the fee agreement. In
addition a Groupwide survey of auditing quality was carried out; the results of this as well as the
additional services provided by PwC alongside the audit of the financial statements were discussed
in the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was also in regular contact with the
auditors between meetings. Heads of corporate functions were also available to provide reports
and take questions in committee meetings on individual agenda items.
In the reporting year the committee’s work focused on examining the 2016 / 2017 parent-company and
consolidated financial statements along with the combined management report, the proposal for the
appropriation of net income and the auditors’ reports, and preparing the Supervisory Board resolution
on these items. In addition, the interim financial reports (half-year and quarterly reports) were also
discussed in detail and adopted, taking into account the auditors’ review report. With regard to PwC
the catalogue of non-audit services by the financial statement auditor requiring approval was
established, and the budget for the performance of non-audit services for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year was set at a maximum amount of 30% of the agreed audit fee. In addition PwC reported in
detail on the new rules for audit reports and on procedures and quality management in connection
with the audit of the financial statements.
In several meetings the Audit Committee monitored the accounting process and discussed the
effectiveness of the internal control system and optimizations made to it, the risk management system
and the internal auditing system. It also dealt in detail with the main legal disputes and compliance in
the Group and discussed at length the strategic compliance measures at thyssenkrupp. In addition in
the presence of the head of Corporate Internal Auditing the committee discussed the internal audit
results, the audit processes and the audit planning of the Group internal auditing team for the
2016 / 2017 fiscal year. Further main topics were the equity capital and rating situation, particularly in
view of the interest rate situation, the balance-sheet impact and follow-up process of the sale of the
CSA steel mill, the EMIR compliance audit for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year in accordance with § 20
WpHG, and the status of the tax inspections. Regular reports were provided on the status of the
corporate initiatives. Furthermore the committee members dealt in detail with the implications of
the CSR Directive Implementation Act for reporting, progress made with IFRS 15 and 16 (revenue
recognition and leases), as well as currency and commodity price risk management in the
thyssenkrupp Group.

13

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

The Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee held five meetings in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year.
Discussions focused on the strategic development of thyssenkrupp and portfolio optimization
measures. The committee also discussed in detail the reports presented previously to the Supervisory
Board on the business activities and strategy of the individual business areas and corporate functions.
Further, the Group’s corporate and investment planning for the reporting year was discussed, taking into
account the Group’s current rating and financial situation, and corresponding Supervisory Board
resolutions were prepared.
At two meetings of the Supervisory Board’s Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee, a conflict
of interest was disclosed in each case by one member. In the meetings transactions were
discussed involving contractual partner companies at which the Supervisory Board member in each
case holds a comparable supervisory board seat. The member did not take part in these
discussions and abstained from voting. As a precaution the confidentiality of the content of the
meetings was again called to the attention of all members of the committee. Further conflicts of
interest of Executive Board and Supervisory Board members, which would have had to be disclosed
to the Supervisory Board immediately, did not occur.
The members of the Nomination Committee convened for two meetings in the past fiscal year.
Discussions focused on succession planning for the Supervisory Board – taking into account the
recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code – and the preparation of a
competency profile.
There was once again no cause to convene the Mediation Committee under § 27 (3)
Codetermination Act in the reporting year.

Audit of the parent-company and consolidated financial statements
Elected by the Annual General Meeting on January 27, 2017 to audit the financial statements for
the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year, PwC audited the parent-company financial statements for the fiscal
year October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017 prepared by the Executive Board in accordance with
HGB (German GAAP) rules, and the management report on thyssenkrupp AG, which is combined
with the management report on the Group. The auditors issued an unqualified audit opinion. In
accordance with § 315a HGB, the consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG for the
fiscal year from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017, and the management report on the
Group, which is combined with the management report on the Company, were prepared on the
basis of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as applicable in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements and the combined management report were also given an
unqualified audit opinion by PwC. The auditors also confirmed that the Executive Board has
installed an appropriate reporting and monitoring system which is suitable in its design and
handling to identify at an early stage developments which could place the continued existence of
the Company at risk.
The financial-statement documents and audit reports for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year were
discussed in detail in the meetings of the Audit Committee on November 20, 2017 and the
Supervisory Board on November 22, 2017. The auditors reported on the main findings of their
audit. They also outlined their findings on the internal control system and risk management in
relation to the accounting process and were available to answer questions and provide additional
information. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported in depth at the full Supervisory Board
meeting on the Audit Committee’s examination of the parent-company and consolidated financial

14

Discussions focused on the strategic
development of thyssenkrupp and
portfolio optimization.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

statements. Following examination and discussion of the parent-company financial statements, the
consolidated financial statements, and the combined management report by the Supervisory Board
no objections were raised. In line with the recommendation by the Audit Committee, the
Supervisory Board then approved the result of the audit by the financial statement auditors.
Following completion of our examination we came to the conclusion that no objections were to be
raised and we established the financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG and approved the
consolidated financial statements. Following our own examination and taking the earnings and
financial situation into account, the Supervisory Board concurred with the Executive Board’s
proposal for the appropriation of net income. Together with the Executive Board, we propose to the
Annual General Meeting that a dividend of €0.15 per share be paid for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year.

Personnel changes on the Supervisory Board
At the close of January 31, 2017 Ernst-August Kiel left the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG.
The members of the Supervisory Board thanked Ernst-August Kiel for his good work over many
years. Effective February 7, 2017 Achim Hass became a new member of the Supervisory Board by
court appointment.
The Supervisory Board thanks the Executive Board members, all employees of the Group worldwide
and the employee representatives of all Group companies for their efforts and achievements in the
2016 / 2017 fiscal year.
The Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
Chairman
Essen, November 22, 2017

15

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Corporate governance
In the following section, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board report on corporate
governance at thyssenkrupp in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance
Code. This section also includes the compensation report.

Corporate governance overview
Further development of corporate governance in the Group
thyssenkrupp continuously develops its understanding of good and responsible corporate
governance. One element of this is the project governance@thyssenkrupp, in which we are
harmonizing the corporate governance structures throughout the Group and optimizing them
beyond the established understanding of corporate governance defined in the German Corporate
Governance Code. The focus is on strengthening the transparency and reliability of our binding
internal regulations and supporting managers in the use of internal corporate governance
instruments.

Implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code
In the reporting year the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG again dealt
intensively with the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code, taking into account
the changes and additions to the Code made by the Government Commission on the German
Corporate Governance Code in February 2017. These changes came into force on publication in
the official section of the Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) on April 24, 2017. In accordance with
§ 161 (1) Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the Executive Board and Supervisory Board issued a joint
declaration of conformity in the reporting year, which was published on October 1, 2017. It is
available on the company’s website at www.thyssenkrupp.com > Company > Management >
Corporate Governance.
In this reporting year thyssenkrupp AG once again complies with all recommendations of the
Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code published by the Federal
Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection, and will continue to comply with these
recommendations in the future.
In addition, thyssenkrupp AG complies with all suggestions of the German Corporate Governance
Code. The declarations of conformity issued in the last five years are permanently available on our
website.
Our listed subsidiary Eisen- und Hüttenwerke AG also complies with the Code, taking into account
the particularities of its membership of the Group. Individual deviations are presented and
explained in the company’s declaration of conformity of October 1, 2017.

16

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Management >
Corporate Governance

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Three lines of defense model as framework for Groupwide risk management
An integrated governance, risk management and compliance (GRC) model, embedded in the
Groupwide GRC Policy, provides the basis for professional and efficient management and control in
the Group. As a framework for this internal oversight system, thyssenkrupp uses the internationally
established three lines of defense model adapted to the Group’s specific organizational structure.
The GRC model shows at which level (line) the various responsibilities for risk management lie
within the Group. At the same time it serves to define responsibilities within the GRC model.

THREE LINES OF DEFENSE MODEL
External auditing

Supervisory Board/Audit Committee
Executive Board/Business Area Boards

1st line of defense

2nd line of defense

3rd line of defense

Functions that own
and manage risks

Functions that oversee risks
and help proactively manage
them

Functions that provide
independent assurance

Management controls

Internal Auditing

Controlling, Accounting
& Risk

Internal controls

Compliance
Legal
Other corporate functions
…

support
review

The first line of defense involves preventing risks where they occur, and where this is not
practicable identifying and reducing them to an appropriate level. In the reporting period we
continued to improve the internal control system in the Group by strengthening systematic risk
management on the first line of defense with automated internal controls in the business processes
wherever possible. As there are cases where this is not fully possible, further control measures
have to be performed by management to ensure the effectiveness of the control system.
The second line of defense includes functions such as Controlling, Accounting & Risk, Compliance,
and Legal. These provide the framework for the internal control system, the risk management
system, and compliance – for example via policies and other binding internal documents – and
support the first line of defense with implementation. At the same time these functions oversee and
manage the Group’s risk landscape from the viewpoint of the Group as a whole. Close integration
of the internal control system, risk management system and compliance maximizes the efficiency
of risk prevention and management.

17

The risk management system is
designed in line with international
standards.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

The third line of defense is Corporate Function Internal Auditing, which independently reviews the
appropriateness and efficiency of the risk management processes and systems implemented by
the first two lines of defense. The head of Corporate Internal Auditing reports directly to the CEO
and takes part in meetings of the Audit Committee once a year. Internal Auditing itself is subject to
an external quality audit every five years; the last audit took place in spring 2015.
The three lines of defense model is subject to external supervision by the financial statement
auditors.

Risk management and internal control system
Corporate governance at thyssenkrupp involves dealing responsibly with risks, because the
continuous and systematic management of business risks – but also opportunities – is
fundamental to professional governance. Management of opportunities and risks helps ensure that
risks are identified, evaluated and managed at an early stage and that opportunities available to
the company are exploited.
The Executive Board reports regularly to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee about the
status of the main risks in the Group and progress with the further development of the internal
control system. The Audit Committee deals regularly with monitoring the effectiveness of the
accounting process and the internal control, risk management and internal auditing system, as well
as monitoring the independence of the financial statement auditors. thyssenkrupp continuously
enhances the individual systems and adapts them to changing conditions.
Key features of our control and risk management system are described in the opportunity and risk
report.

Compliance
Compliance, in the sense of all Groupwide measures to ensure adherence to statutory requirements
and binding internal regulations, is a key management and oversight duty at thyssenkrupp.
The Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG has unequivocally expressed its rejection of antitrust
violations and corruption in the thyssenkrupp Compliance Commitment. Any violations, in
particular antitrust or corruption violations, will be met with zero tolerance. Compliance is a
question of mindset.
The importance attached to compliance at thyssenkrupp is underlined by the fact that a dedicated
Executive Board member is responsible for the corporate functions Legal & Compliance. This Board
member reports regularly to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee on compliance issues.
The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for the management of the compliance program and
reports directly to the Executive Board member for Legal & Compliance.
More information on compliance at thyssenkrupp can be found in the “Compliance” section of the
combined management report.

18

Compliance is a question of mindset.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Supervisory Board targets for its own composition
Under the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board must be composed in such
a way that its members have the knowledge, skills and professional experience needed to perform
their tasks properly. The Supervisory Board sets targets for its own composition. The election
recommendations made to the Annual General Meeting must take these targets into account in the
same way as the requirements of the law, the Articles of Association, and the German Corporate
Governance Code. As this was the case in the election of the shareholder representatives at the
Annual General Meeting on January 30, 2015, the current composition of the Supervisory Board
meets these targets. Only the proportion of women on the Supervisory Board remains slightly short
of target at currently 25%. The concrete targets most recently updated in September 2016 are as
follows:
■ Supervisory Board to have sufficient members with international experience, in particular in the

■

■
■

■

■
■

expansion markets and Supervisory Board members as a whole to be familiar with the sectors in
which thyssenkrupp operates;
Consideration of special knowledge and experience in the application of accounting principles
and internal control processes, expertise in the areas of accounting and auditing, also
consideration of technical expertise, and knowledge of financing strategies and financial
instruments;
Experience in corporate management and the development and formulation of corporate
strategies;
Avoidance of significant and non-temporary conflicts of interest (existing conflicts of interest or
conflicts of interest to be expected in the future) and appropriate handling of other conflicts of
interest;
Supervisory Board members to serve no more than a maximum three periods of office, and an
age limit of 75 (i.e. Supervisory Board members to stand down from the Supervisory Board at
the end of the Annual General Meeting after they reach 75);
Increase in the proportion of women to at least 30%;
At least fifteen independent Supervisory Board members.

In the assessment of the Supervisory Board the appropriate number of independent members on
the shareholder representative side is at least five. In addition to the employee representatives, the
following members representing shareholders are independent: Ingrid Hengster, Hans-Peter Keitel,
Ulrich Lehner, Ralf Nentwig, René Obermann, Bernhard Pellens, Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow,
Carsten Spohr, Lothar Steinebach and Jens Tischendorf.
In addition the Supervisory Board has drawn up a competency profile for the entire Board as
recommended by the German Corporate Governance Code since 2017. Future election proposals
will be based – as in the past – on this competency profile.

Avoiding conflicts of interest
In the reporting year there were no consulting or other service agreements between Supervisory
Board members and the Company. Information on conflicts of interest and how they were dealt with
is provided in the section “Report by the Supervisory Board”. Details of the other directorships held
by Executive Board and Supervisory Board members on statutory supervisory boards or
comparable German and non-German control bodies of business enterprises are provided in the
sections of the same name under “Additional information”. Details of related party transactions are
given in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.

19

The appropriate number of
independent members on the
shareholder representative side is at
least five.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Directors’ dealings
Members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and persons close to them are required to
disclose the purchase and sale of thyssenkrupp AG shares and debt certificates or related financial
instruments whenever the value of the transactions amounts to €5,000 or more within a calendar
year. No transactions were reported to us in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year.
At September 30, 2017 the total volume of thyssenkrupp AG shares held by all Executive Board
and Supervisory Board members amounted to less than 1% of the shares issued by the Company.

Shareholders and Annual General Meeting
The shareholders of thyssenkrupp AG exercise their rights at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the Articles
of Association. The Annual General Meeting takes place once a year. Each share confers one vote
and has an accounting par value of €2.56.
Shareholders can exercise their voting rights at the Annual General Meeting in person or by proxy,
for which they can authorize a person of their choice or a Company-nominated proxy acting on their
instructions. Proxy voting instructions to Company-nominated proxies can be issued via the internet
before and during the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders can also cast their votes in writing by
postal vote – without authorizing a proxy. The Annual General Meeting can be viewed live and in full
on the Company’s website. Also on our website we make all documents and information on the
Annual General Meeting available to shareholders in good time. In addition, questions can be
addressed to members of our Investor Relations department via an infoline or e-mail.

Transparency through high-quality information
The dialogue between Investor Relations and the capital market is aimed at presenting key
performance indicators and further valuation-relevant facts in the highest quality to all target
groups fully, equally and quickly. To guarantee this Investor Relations is directly established under
the CFO. Together with the CFO, the CEO and the business area management teams, Investor
Relations conducts a regular and intensive dialogue with capital market participants on roadshows,
at investors’ conferences, at the Capital Market Day, in conference calls held on publication of the
interim reports and Annual Report, and to report on current developments. All dates and venues,
presentations, audio and video recordings of conference calls and events together with a wide
range of further in-depth information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.

20

The Annual General Meeting can be
viewed live and in full on the
Company’s website.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Also on our website we report on the latest developments in the Group. Visitors to our website will
find for example press releases and stock exchange (ad hoc) announcements, a live stream of our
annual press conference, the Company’s Articles of Association, annual reports and interim reports.
Anyone interested can subscribe to an electronic newsletter which reports news from the Group.

Deductible in D&O insurance
The Company has taken out directors and officers (D&O) liability insurance for the members of the
Executive Board and Supervisory Board with an appropriate deductible pursuant to § 93 (2)
sentence 3 Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (Executive Board members) and the German Corporate
Governance Code (Supervisory Board members).

Accounting and financial statement auditing
In line with European Union requirements, thyssenkrupp prepares the consolidated financial
statements and interim reports in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). However, the parent-company financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG, on which the
dividend payment is based, are drawn up in accordance with German GAAP (HGB).
For the reporting period the Supervisory Board once again agreed with the financial statement
auditors that the Chairman of the Audit Committee would be informed immediately of any possible
grounds for exclusion or bias of the auditors arising during the audit insofar as they are not
immediately eliminated, and that the auditors would report immediately on any findings or
occurrences coming to their attention during the audit which have a significant bearing on the
duties of the Supervisory Board. It was also agreed that the auditors would inform the Supervisory
Board or make a note in the audit report of any facts ascertained during their examination that
conflict with the declaration of conformity issued.
In accordance with the statutory provisions the auditor is elected each year by the Annual General
Meeting for a period of one year. At the proposal of the Supervisory Board, the Annual General
Meeting on January 27, 2017 elected PwC to audit the annual financial statements and review the
interim financial reports for fiscal year 2016 / 2017 and to review the interim financial reports for
fiscal year 2017 / 2018 drawn up before the 2018 Annual General Meeting. PwC has been auditing
the parent-company financial statements and consolidated financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG since fiscal 2012 / 2013. PwC was engaged in 2012 following an external bidding
process. The signatory auditors for the parent-company and consolidated financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG are Prof. Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann (since fiscal year 2012 / 2013) and Michael
Preiß (since fiscal year 2015 / 2016). The statutory provisions and rotation requirements under §§
319 and 319a HGB are fulfilled.

21

PwC audits the parent-company and
consolidated financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Compensation report
The following compensation report is part of the combined management report.

Performance-based compensation system for the Executive Board
The current compensation system for the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG has been
in place since fiscal year 2014 / 2015. It was approved by the Annual General Meeting on January
30, 2015 with a majority of 98.79% of the capital represented.
Based on this, compensation for the Executive Board members comprises fixed and variable
components. The former are the fixed compensation, fringe benefits and pension plans, while the
latter are the performance bonus (Short Term Incentive Plan – STI) and the Long Term Incentive
Plan (LTI). These components are described in more detail in the following passages.
The Supervisory Board – based on preparation by the Personnel Committee – is responsible for
determining individual Executive Board member compensation. Criteria for the appropriateness of
the compensation include the duties of the individual Executive Board members, their personal
performance, the business situation, the success and prospects of the Company and also the
prevailing level of compensation at peer companies and the compensation structure applying in the
Company. The variable components are mainly based on performance over several years. They
therefore set long-term incentives and focus the compensation structure on the sustainable
development of the Company. In the case of exceptional performance or achievements, the
Supervisory Board can award an additional discretionary bonus.
All Executive Board member contracts provide for a severance payment in the event of early
termination without cause. The severance payment is limited to a maximum of two years’
compensation including fringe benefits (severance payment cap) and compensates no more than
the remaining term of the employment agreement. This also applies in the event of early
termination due to a change of control.

Fixed compensation and fringe benefits
Fixed compensation is paid in monthly installments as a salary. Since the last review at October 1,
2014 it has been €700,000 per year for an ordinary Executive Board member, and €1,340,000 per
year for the Executive Board chairman. The Executive Board members also receive fringe benefits,
mainly comprising a company car, security services, and insurance premiums. The benefits apply
in principle to all Executive Board members; the amount varies according to personal situation.

22

The variable components are mainly
based on performance over several
years.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Performance bonus
The first component of variable compensation is the performance bonus. The amount of the
performance bonus is dependent on three of the Group’s key performance indicators: Earnings
before interest and taxes (EBIT) and free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A) each have a
weighting of 40%, ROCE (return on capital employed) accounts for the remaining 20%.
The target figures for these indicators are taken from the corporate planning (budget); in addition
threshold values are defined for each indicator, above or below which a further improvement or
deterioration of the result has no effect on the level of target achievement. The Supervisory Board
reviews and if necessary adjusts the target and threshold amounts at the beginning of every fiscal
year in order to maintain challenging targets. In addition to the three weighted performance
indicators, a multiplicative correction factor is used in the calculation. This permits the Supervisory
Board to adapt and individually differentiate the overall target achievement level within a +/−20%
range. The correction factor is made up equally of a sustainability multiplier and a discretionary
factor. The sustainability multiplier is based on Indirect Financial Targets from the areas employees,
innovations, environment, and suppliers. The discretionary factor is set by the Supervisory Board
to evaluate overall performance. The payout amount is limited to a maximum of 200% of the target
level; there is no minimum bonus.

Long Term Incentive plan (LTI)
The second component of variable compensation is the LTI, which has a long-term incentive effect.
Decisive factors here are value generation, measured on the basis of thyssenkrupp Value Added
(tkVA), and the performance of the Company’s stock.
For an initial value (in euros) specified in the individual awards, the Executive Board members are
granted so-called stock rights (virtual shares). The number of stock rights issued is calculated from
the specified initial value divided by the average stock price in the 1st quarter of the three-year
tkVA performance period, beginning on October 1 of the fiscal year in which the stock rights were
granted. The number of stock rights issued is adjusted at the end of the tkVA performance period –
depending on the performance of average tkVA in these three years compared with a target set by
the Supervisory Board: The number of stock rights increases by 1% for every €20 million of
average tkVA above the target value and decreases by 1% for every €10 million below the target.
The payout amount is then based on this adjusted number and the average thyssenkrupp share
price in the 1st quarter of the fiscal year immediately after the tkVA performance period. If tkVA and
the share price perform positively, the maximum payout amount is 250% of the initial value; in the
event of a very negative performance, the number of stock rights can decrease to zero, in which
case no payout is made.
In the case of the LTI, too, the Supervisory Board reviews and if necessary adjusts the target and
threshold values for each new annual installment at the beginning of each fiscal year in order to
maintain challenging targets. For the LTI installment granted to the Executive Board members in
January 2017, the Supervisory Board set the target average tkVA at zero. This relates to the tkVA
performance period 2016 / 2017 up to and including 2018 / 2019.

23

The sustainability multiplier is based
on Indirect Financial Targets from the
areas employees, innovations,
environment, and suppliers.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Compensation caps
Under the recommendation of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 4.2.3 (2), sentence
6), the compensation of Executive Board members must be capped both in total and with regard to
its variable components. In addition to the maximum thresholds applying for variable
compensation components, thyssenkrupp has therefore also established caps for overall
compensation. These are €9 million per fiscal year for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and €4.5 million per
fiscal year for Guido Kerkhoff, Oliver Burkhard and Dr. Donatus Kaufmann.

Pensions
Pensions are paid to former Executive Board members who have either reached pension age or
become permanently incapacitated for work. thyssenkrupp does not pay transitional allowances
upon premature termination or non-renewal of service contracts.
The Executive Board members Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff have a pension
entitlement of 50% of their respective fixed salaries in fiscal 2014 / 2015. The pension entitlement
of the Executive Board members Oliver Burkhard and Dr. Donatus Kaufmann is based on a definedcontribution pension plan; the annual pension contribution (“module”) is currently 40% of their
annual fixed salaries. It was additionally agreed with Oliver Burkhard that his maximum pension
entitlement will be capped at 50% and his annual defined contribution at 40% of his fixed salary in
fiscal 2014 / 2015.
The pension normally becomes payable on expiry of the Executive Board contract on or after the
member’s 60th birthday. Current pensions are adjusted annually in line with the consumer price
index in the case of Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff, and increased at a rate of 1% per
year in the case of Oliver Burkhard. Dr. Donatus Kaufmann’s pension will be paid in principle as a
lump sum.
Under the surviving dependants’ benefits plan, a surviving partner receives 60% of the pension
and each dependent child 20%, up to a maximum of 100% of the pension amount. In the case of
Dr. Donatus Kaufmann, surviving dependants will receive the amount of the pension contributions
plus interest at the time the pension becomes payable.

24

In line with the recommendation of the
German Corporate Governance Code
thyssenkrupp has established caps for
the overall compensation of Executive
Board members.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Total Executive Board compensation 2016 / 2017
We disclose compensation for individual Executive Board members on the basis of the standardized
model tables recommended in the German Corporate Governance Code (as amended). A key
feature of these model tables is the separate statement of the benefits granted (Table 1) and the
actual allocations (Table 2). For the benefits granted, the target values (payable on 100% target
achievement) and the minimum and maximum values that can be achieved are also stated. In
addition, stock-based compensation is stated separately (Table 3).

TA B L E 1 : E X E C U T I V E B OAR D CO M P E N SAT I O N 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7 ( B E N E FI T S G R AN T E D )

Fixed compensation
Fringe benefits

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since April 01, 2011

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since February 01, 2013

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since February 01, 2014

2016/
2017
Minimum

2016/
2017
Maximum 1)

2015/
2016
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Minimum

2016/
2017
Maximum 1)

2015/
2016
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Minimum

2016/
2017
Maximum 1)

2015/
2016
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Initial
value

2016/
2017
Minimum

2016/
2017
Maximum 1)

1,340 1,340 1,340

700

Performance
bonus (cash)
7th installment
LTI
2016/2017 –
2019/2020
6th installment
LTI
2015/2016 –
2018/2019

2016/
2017
Initial
value

1,340

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

83

83

71

51

51

51

149

34

34

34

80

54

54

54

1,644 1,423 1,423

1,423

771

751

751

751

849

734

734

734

780

754

754

754

1,250 1,250

–

2,500

655

680

– 1,360

630

630

– 1,260

630

630

– 1,260

– 2,137

–

5,000

– 1,122

– 2,625

– 1,015

– 2,375

– 1,015

– 2,375

304

Total

Total

Guido Kerkhoff

Chairman of the Executive Board
since January 21, 2011
2015/
2016
Initial
value

all figures in €000s

Variable
compensation

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

1,656

83

–

–

–

828

–

–

–

786

–

–

–

786

–

–

8,923 2,254 2,553

751 4,736 2,265 2,379

Service cost 2)3)

1,768 2,254 2,254

2,254

716

Total

6,318 7,064 3,677 11,177 2,767 3,269 1,467 5,452 3,092 3,577 1,932 5,567 2,511 2,690 1,045 4,680

HGB total 4)

4,280 4,709

–

513

716

– 2,113 2,498

–

716

734 4,369 2,196 2,399

–

4,550 4,810 1,423

827 1,198 1,198 1,198

– 2,129 2,328

–

315

291

– 2,060 2,348

754 4,389
291

–

291

–

In addition to the individual caps stated in the “Maximum” column, total annual compensation is limited to €9.0 million (Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger) and €4.5 million (Guido Kerkhoff, Oliver Burkhard
and Dr. Donatus Kaufmann).
All figures in accordance with IFRS. Service costs in accordance with HGB are €1,349K for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €1,321K), €348K for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €343K), €513K for
Oliver Burkhard (prior year: €522K), and €256K for Dr. Donatus Kaufmann (prior year: €296K). The present values of the obligations amount to €14,267K (IFRS)/€10,134K (HGB) for Dr.
Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €13,742K [IFRS]/€8,015K [HGB]), €3,970K (IFRS)/€2,459K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €3,966K [IFRS]/€1,885K [HGB]), €5,753K (IFRS)/€3,367K (HGB)
for Oliver Burkhard (prior year: €5,467K [IFRS]/€2,398K [HGB]), and €1,094K (IFRS)/€1,003K (HGB) for Dr. Donatus Kaufmann (prior year: €818K [IFRS]/€701K [HGB]). Cf. footnote 3 for
calculation method.
3)
To improve the comparability of the final salary-based and defined-contribution pension plans as well as comparability with the prior-year figures, service cost and present value are prorated in
line with Executive Board membership in the fiscal year. To take account of the vesting of contractual pension rights of Executive Board members, further provisions were recognized for Dr.
Heinrich Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff in the past. Taking these provisions into account and without proration, the service costs are €5K (IFRS)/€3K (HGB) for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year:
€7K [IFRS]/€5K [HGB]), and €3K (IFRS)/€1K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €3,699K [IFRS]/€2,272K [HGB]). The present values of the obligations are then €19,380K (IFRS)/€13,762K
(HGB) for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €21,548K [IFRS]/€12,555K [HGB]) and €9,466K (IFRS)/€5,848K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €11,028K [IFRS]/€5,216K [HGB]).
4)
Total compensation in accordance with HGB. In deviation from the amounts shown above for the performance bonuses, this includes the amounts paid out in accordance with Table 2. In
accordance with HGB, service cost is not included.
1)

2)

25

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

TA B L E 2 : E X E C U T I V E B OAR D CO M P E N SAT I O N 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7 ( A L L O C AT I O N S )
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

Guido Kerkhoff

Ordinary member of the
Chairman of the Executive Board Executive Board since April 01,
since January 21, 2011
2011
all figures in €000s

Fixed compensation
Fringe benefits
Total
One-year variable
compensation

Multi-year
variable
compensation

Performance bonus
(cash)

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board since February
01, 2013

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board since February
01, 2014

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

1,340

1,340

700

700

700

700

700

700

304

83

71

51

149

34

80

54

1,644

1,423

771

751

849

734

780

754

980

1,149

514

625

494

579

494

579

Performance bonus in
stock rights
2013/2014 – 2016/2017

–

642

–

321

–

321

–

214

Performance bonus in
stock rights
2012/2013 – 2015/2016

481

–

240

–

160

–

–

–

Additional bonus in
stock rights
2013/2014 – 2016/2017

–

538

–

269

–

269

–

179

Additional bonus in
stock rights
2012/2013 – 2015/2016

674

–

337

–

225

–

–

–

4th installment LTI
2013/2014 – 2016/2017

–

2,239

–

1,120

–

1,120

–

746

3rd installment LTI
2012/2013 – 2015/2016
Total

1,662

–

831

–

554

–

–

–

5,441

5,991

2,693

3,086

2,282

3,023

1,274

2,472

Service cost 1)

1,768

2,254

513

716

827

1,198

315

291

Total

7,209

8,245

3,206

3,802

3,109

4,221

1,589

2,763

1)

For calculation of service cost, see footnotes 2 and 3 to Table 1.

TA B L E 3 : S TO C K - B A S E D E X E C U T I V E B OAR D COM P E N SAT I O N 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7
(number of stock rights granted and cost of stock-based compensation in fiscal year)
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

Guido Kerkhoff

Ordinary member of the
Chairman of the Executive Board Executive Board since April 01,
since January 21, 2011
2011

Number of stock rights
granted
Cost of stock-based
compensation in fiscal
year in €000s

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board since February
01, 2013

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board since February
01, 2014

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

2015/2016

2016/2017

LTI 2016/2017 –
2019/2020

–

91,241

–

47,901

–

43,339

–

43,339

LTI 2015/2016 –
2018/2019

109,709

–

54,855

–

52,112

–

52,112

–

5,479

2,495

2,771

1,304

2,623

1,187

2,237

1,138

Total compensation for Executive Board members active in the respective fiscal year calculated in
accordance with German GAAP (HGB) for work in the reporting year amounted to €11.9 million.
The corresponding prior-year value was €10.6 million. The requirement for appropriateness was
also taken into account when determining the individual variable compensation. No further benefits
have been promised to any Executive Board members in the event that they leave their post.
thyssenkrupp has no knowledge of benefits or corresponding promises given to members of the

26

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Executive Board by third parties in connection with their Executive Board positions. As in previous
years, no loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Executive Board, nor were
any guarantees or other commitments entered into in their favor.
The 4th installment of the LTI fell due in the reporting year. It was the final LTI installment for which
performance of average tkVA over the performance period compared with the prior years (delta
tkVA) was the main factor alongside the performance of the Company’s share price in determining
the payout amount. On account of the performance of tkVA and the share price over the applicable
performance period 2013 / 2014 to 2016 / 2017 compared with the relevant comparative period of
the fiscal years 2010 / 2011 to 2012 / 2013, this led to a payout amounting to over 224% of the
initial value for each beneficiary. As a result an amount of €2,239,062 was paid to Dr. Heinrich
Hiesinger and €1,119,542 each to Guido Kerkhoff and Oliver Burkhard. Dr. Donatus Kaufmann,
whose contract commenced on February 1, 2014, received a corresponding prorated amount of
€746,332. In January 2017 the Executive Board members were granted new stock rights under the
7th installment of the LTI. Under the 5th to 7th installments of the LTI, the Executive Board
members now have a total of 728,747 stock rights which have been awarded but are not yet
payable.
Total compensation paid to former members of the Executive Board and their surviving dependants
amounted to €14.5 million (prior year: €17.4 million). For pension obligations benefiting former
Executive Board members and their surviving dependants, €270.1 million (prior year:
€304.1 million) was accrued in the financial statements under IFRS and €208.2 million (prior year:
€207.3 million) in the financial statements under German GAAP (HGB).

Stock-based compensation for further executives
Alongside the Executive Board, further selected executives of the Group worldwide receive part of
their remuneration in the form of stock-based compensation (LTI). Since fiscal year 2014 / 2015
this is comparable with the LTI described above for the Executive Board, with the initial values
adjusted accordingly.
thyssenkrupp uses this long-term compensation instrument to strengthen executives’ identification
with thyssenkrupp and loyalty to the Company. As the LTI amount is linked to both the share price
and tkVA, it promotes value-based management geared to achieving the corporate goals.
In the reporting year, the LTI program for further executives resulted in expense of altogether
€40.8 million (prior year: €76.2 million).

Supervisory Board compensation
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is subject to § 14 of the Articles of Association. In
addition to reimbursement of their expenses and a meeting attendance fee of €500, Supervisory
Board members receive annual base compensation of €50,000.
The annual compensation for the Supervisory Board Chairman is €200,000 and for the Vice
Chairman €150,000. This also covers membership and chairs of committees. The other
Supervisory Board members receive premiums for the chairs/membership of specified committees
which are also defined in § 14 of the Articles of Association. Supervisory Board members who
serve on the Supervisory Board or a committee for only part of the fiscal year receive prorated
compensation.

27

The LTI amount is linked to both the
share price and tkVA.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

The members of the Supervisory Board will receive total compensation, including meeting
attendance fees, for the reporting year of €1.68 million (prior year: €1.69 million). This includes
compensation paid to Supervisory Board members for directorships at Group companies in the
amount of €55,618 (prior year: €69,302).
The individual members will receive the amounts listed in the following table:

S U P E R V I S O R Y B OAR D COM P E N S AT I O N 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7
in €1)

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
(Chairman)
Dr. Sabine Maaßen
(Vice Chairwoman until March 15, 2016)
Markus Grolms
(Vice Chairman since April 8, 2016)
Martin Dreher
(until May 31, 2016)
Achim Hass
(until February 7, 2017)
Ingrid Hengster
Susanne Herberger
Tanja Jacquemin
(since March 30, 2016)
Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel
Ernst-August Kiel
(until January 31, 2017)
Dr. Norbert Kluge
Tekin Nasikkol
(since June 1, 2016)
Dr. Ralf Nentwig
René Obermann
Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens
Peter Remmler
Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow
Wilhelm Segerath
Carsten Spohr
Dr. Lothar Steinebach
Jens Tischendorf
Friedrich Weber
Isolde Würz
Total

Fixed compensation

Compensation for
committee work

Meeting attendance fees

from directorships within
the Group

Total compensation

200,000
(200,000)
–
(75,000)
150,000
(100,000)
–
(33,333)
33,333
(–)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(29,167)
50,000
(50,000)
16,667
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(16,667)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
1,250,000
(1,254,167)

– 2)
(–) 2)
– 2)
(–) 2)
– 2) 3)
(16,250)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
12,500
(25,833)
20,000
(6,667)
50,000
(50,000)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
32,500
(32,500)
–
(–)
52,500
(52,500)
12,500
(12,500)
–
(–)
57,500
(50,208)
–
(–)
25,000
(25,000)
12,500
(12,500)
–
(–)
–
(–)
275,000
(283,958)

12,000
(10,000)
–
(3,500)
11,000
(8,000)
–
(1,500)
1,500
(–)
2,500
(2,000)
5,000
(5,500)
4,500
(2,000)
7,500
(6,500)
1,000
(2,000)
2,500
(2,000)
2,500
(500)
7,000
(5,000)
2,500
(2,000)
7,500
(5,000)
5,000
(3,500)
2,500
(2,000)
11,000
(8,000)
2,500
(1,500)
5,500
(4,500)
4,000
(4,500)
2,500
(2,000)
2,500
(2,000)
106,500
(83,500)

–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(15,202)
12,613
(–)
–
(–)
16,000
(16,000)
–
(–)
–
(–)
5,305
(16,000)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
16,250
(16,500)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
5,450
(5,300)
–
(–)
55,617
(69,302)

212,000
(210,000)
–
(78,500)
161,000
(124,250)
–
(50,035)
47,446
(–)
52,500
(52,000)
83,500
(97,333)
74,500
(37,834)
107,500
(106,500)
22,972
(68,000)
52,500
(52,000)
52,500
(17,167)
89,500
(87,500)
52,500
(52,000)
110,000
(107,500)
83,750
(66,000)
52,500
(52,000)
118,500
(108,208)
52,500
(51,500)
80,500
(79,500)
66,500
(67,000)
57,950
(57,300)
52,500
(52,000)
1,687,117
(1,690,927)

Prior-year figures in brackets
Covered by fixed compensation in accordance with § 14 (3) of the Articles of Association
3)
Committee compensation paid on a prorated basis.
The employee representatives who belong to trade unions have stated that they will transfer their compensation to the Hans Böckler Foundation in accordance with the policies of the
German Federation of Trade Unions.
1)
2)

28

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | thyssenkrupp stock

In the reporting year Supervisory Board members received no further compensation or benefits for
personal services rendered, in particular advisory and agency services. As in previous years, no
loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Supervisory Board, nor were any
guarantees or other commitments entered into in their favor.

thyssenkrupp stock
K E Y DATA O F T H YS S E N K R UP P S TO C K

Capital stock
Number of shares (total)
Market capitalization end September

2012/2013

2013/2014

2014/2015

2015/2016

2016/2017

million €

1,317

1,449

1,449

1,449

1,593

million
shares

514.5

565.9

565.9

565.9

622.5

million €

9,096

11,754

8,873

12,008

15,613

Closing price end September

€

17.68

20.78

15.68

21.22

25.08

High

€

19.05

22.72

26.30

22.27

26.83

Low

€

13.16

16.60

15.25

12.84

19.77

thyssenkrupp stock
master data
ISIN 1)
Shares

DE 000 750 0001

ADRs 2)

US88629Q2075

Symbols
TKA

Frankfurt, Düsseldorf

TKAMY

ADRs (over-the-counter trading)

1)
2)

Dividend per share

€

—

0.11

0.15

0.15

0.151)

Dividend yield

%

—

0.5

1.0

0.7

0.61)

million €

—

62

85

85

931)

Dividend payout

Earnings per share (EPS)

€

(2.79)

0.38

0.55

0.52

(1.15)

Number of shares (outstanding 2))

million
shares

514.5

557.1

565.9

565.9

566.3

Trading volume (daily average)

million
shares

3.7

2.4

2.6

2.7

2.6

1)
2)

Proposal to the Annual General Meeting
Weighted average

In fiscal year 2016 / 2017 thyssenkrupp’s stock continued its upward trend, closing on
September 30, 2017 18% higher than at the start of the fiscal year. At the beginning of the fiscal
year the stock continued to profit from the brightening mood on the steel market. Provisional tariffs
on hot-rolled steel and heavy plate from China, higher steel prices, increasing speculation about
potential consolidation steps in the European steel industry, and the sale of CSA had a positive
impact on our share price. In the second half of the fiscal year thyssenkrupp’s stock initially
profited from the expectation of further economic impetus following the US election.

29

International Stock Identification Number
American Depositary Receipt

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | thyssenkrupp stock

In the 2nd quarter with the signing of the deal to sell CSA, the share price was buoyed by the
visible progress in our Strategic Way Forward. In the 3rd quarter a general rise in share prices led
to profit-taking by investors, with thyssenkrupp’s stock affected disproportionately. Towards the
end of the 3rd quarter and in the 4th quarter thyssenkrupp’s stock closed the gap on the indexes.
With the signing of the memorandum of understanding with Tata Steel on a joint venture for the
European steel activities, thyssenkrupp’s stock at times significantly outperformed the indexes.
At the end of the fiscal year thyssenkrupp’s stock slipped against the DAX due to profit taking. This
was due not least to speculation about a capital increase, which weighed on thyssenkrupp’s share
price.
On July 13, 2017 the stock reached its fiscal year high of €26.83. At September 30, 2017 the
stock stood at €25.08, a year-on-year increase of 18%; the DAX and STOXX indexes improved by
22% and 13% respectively in this period.

€26.83

PERFORMANCE OF THYSSENKRUPP STOCK RELATIVE TO DAX AND DJ STOXX

was the fiscal year high (2016 / 2017)
for thyssenkrupp’s stock.

indexed, fiscal year 2016 / 2017
130

115

100

85
10
2016

11

12

01

02

03

04

05

2017

06

07
thyssenkrupp

08

09
Dax

DJ Stoxx

Investor confidence confirmed by capital increase
On September 25, 2017 the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG decided to increase the capital
stock of the company, under exclusion of shareholder subscription rights, by a nominal
€144,880,112.64, i.e. 10% of the capital stock, by issuing 56,593,794 new shares. Two thirds of
the newly issued shares were placed on the same day with British and US investors in an
accelerated bookbuilding process at a price of €24.30 per share. One third was placed mainly with
investors from continental Europe including Germany. The placement resulted in net proceeds of
around €1.4 billion, which will be used in particular to drive the organic growth of the capital goods
businesses in the key areas of urbanization, mobility and service as well as necessary restructuring
initiatives. The prompt placement on the same day with mainly long-term investors confirms the
trust of investors in the value potential of thyssenkrupp’s strategy.
Following the capital increase the capital stock of thyssenkrupp AG is €1,593,681,256.96 and is
divided into 622,531,741 no par bearer shares. Each share grants one vote at the Annual General
Meeting.

30

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
1 To our shareholders | thyssenkrupp stock

Shareholder structure
The biggest shareholder in thyssenkrupp AG after the capital increase is still the Alfried Krupp von
Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, Essen, which according to a voluntary disclosure holds a slightly
lower share of around 21% of the capital stock. Cevian Capital, Stockholm and Zurich, holds 15.08%
of the capital stock according to a disclosure under the Securities Trading Act (WpHG) of March
2014. The share held by the Krupp Foundation is not included in the free float. Private investors
hold an estimated 10% of the capital stock. The remaining shares are widely held internationally,
with a focus on North America and the United Kingdom.
thyssenkrupp AG currently holds no treasury shares. The free float generally taken into account in
the weighting of thyssenkrupp’s stock in stock indexes accounts for around 79% of the capital
stock.

Buy and hold recommendations predominate
The clear progress on the Strategic Way Forward is assessed very positively by the 24 financial
analysts who cover thyssenkrupp and issue investment recommendations. Their recommendations
and the resultant stock price targets reflect above all the upside potential of thyssenkrupp’s stock
from the company’s transformation into a diversified industrial group. At September 30, 2017 over
90% of the analysts recommended holding or buying the stock.

Dividend proposal of €0.15 per share
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting on
January 19, 2018 that a dividend of €0.15 per share be paid for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year. In the
reporting year thyssenkrupp reached further important milestones on the Strategic Way Forward. In
the restructuring of the Group, the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA to Ternium was followed by
the signing of a memorandum of understanding with Tata Steel to combine our European steel
activities in a 50 / 50 joint venture. However, the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA to Ternium
resulted in one-time impairment charges resulting in a net loss for the year at Group level.
Nonetheless, alongside strategic progress we also reported pleasing earnings improvements: Our
adjusted EBIT was once again higher year-on-year, clearly exceeding the target we set at the start
of the fiscal year.
In view of the strategic progress we therefore consider it appropriate and financially justifiable to pay
a dividend in the proposed amount. The proposal also takes account of the further improvement of
relevant indicators in connection with our Strategic Way Forward, in particular another clear
increase in earnings and correspondingly clearly positive net income for the year.

31

Investor Relations
Telephone: +49 201 844-536367
E-mail: ir@thyssenkrupp.com
www.thyssenkrupp.com > Investors

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Combined management report

Combined management
report

33

Preliminary remarks

67

33

Fundamental information about
the Group
Profile and organizational structure
Strategy
Management of the Group
Targets

78

33
35
38
39
41
41
46
49
51
57

Report on the economic position
Macro and sector environment
Summarized assessment by
the Executive Board
Forecast actual comparison
Group review
Business area review

82
85
87
89
95
97

2

Results of operations and
financial position
Annual financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG
Technology and innovations
Environment, climate and energy
Purchasing
Employees
Compliance
Subsequent events

98 Forecast, opportunity and risk report
98 2017 / 2018 forecast
101 Opportunity and risk report
122 Legal information

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Preliminary remarks

Preliminary remarks
Combined management report
This management report combines the management report on the Group and the management
report on thyssenkrupp AG. In it we report on the course of business including business
performance as well as the position and the expected development of the Group and of
thyssenkrupp AG. The information on thyssenkrupp AG is presented in a separate section of the
report on the economic position with disclosures in accordance with HGB. The German Accounting
Standard 20 (GAS 20) “Group Management Report” was applied.
Following the sale of CSA, the focus is on the continuing operations unless explicit reference is
made to CSA or the Group as a whole.
The links are not part of the management report unless otherwise stated.

Fundamental information
about the Group
Profile and organizational structure
We work with passion and expertise to develop high-quality products and intelligent industrial processes
and services that promote efficient use of resources and help create sustainable infrastructures. Our
technologies and innovations are key to meeting the wide-ranging needs of our customers and
markets around the world, achieving growth on the markets of the future, and generating strong and
stable earnings, cash flows and value added. Engineering expertise, group synergies, diversity and
global reach define thyssenkrupp. We engage as entrepreneurs with a passion to perform.
The high standards we set ourselves and our shared values are documented in our mission
statement, which can be found on our website.

Capability profile
By combining our engineering expertise with our traditionally strong materials capabilities, we aim
to create value for our customers around the world and utilize the wide-ranging opportunities in the
markets of the future. Together with our customers we develop competitive solutions to the
challenges of the future in their individual sectors. In our capital goods businesses for example we
develop and manufacture high-quality components for the automotive, machinery, and energy

33

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Corporate culture

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

sectors. We also produce innovative technological goods and service solutions for our customers
such as modern elevator systems and electric power assisted steering systems. Our plant
engineering portfolio extends from the engineering and construction of complete industrial facilities
and maintenance through our global service network to advanced naval technology. Our materials
businesses offer custom material solutions, efficient materials manufacturing and processing, and
materials services.

Organizational and management structure
Our business operations are organized in five business areas: Components Technology, Elevator
Technology, Industrial Solutions, Materials Services and Steel Europe. With the sale of the Brazilian
steel mill CSA in February 2017 the former sixth business area Steel Americas is reported as a
discontinued operation until the closing of the sale in September 2017. The business areas are
divided into business units and operating units. In 79 countries, 461 companies and 25 investments
accounted for by the equity method are included in the consolidated financial statements.

79

T H YS S E N K R U P P G R O U P

Multidimensional manage-

Companies in 79 countries are
included in the consolidated financial
statements.

ment structure with network
character

Corporate headquarters

thyssenkrupp AG

Business
areas

Business areas
Corporate
functions

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

Steel
Europe

The Group is led strategically by thyssenkrupp AG. Founded in 1999 as a stock corporation under
German law, the company has dual domiciles in Essen and Duisburg. Our corporate headquarters
is in Essen. The Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG sets the strategy for the Group’s development
and steers the business areas, the corporate functions, the regions and the service units. We
define our strategic growth regions as North and South America, India, Asia/Pacific, Greater China,
the Middle East and Africa. Our headquarters in these growth regions are located in Chicago, São
Paulo, Mumbai, Beijing, Singapore and Istanbul. The regions of West Europe, Central and East
Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States, and the German-speaking region are managed
from our headquarters via the various corporate functions.
The Group’s Strategic Way Forward is focused on concrete goals for the individual business areas
and increased global connectedness and cooperation. Accordingly we operate in a
multidimensional management structure (matrix structure) made up of operating businesses,
corporate functions, regions, and service units. Within this structure clear roles and responsibilities,
rules and standards for cooperation, and processes and reporting lines have been defined. The
“Global Shared Services” unit combines the main transaction and administration processes in inhouse service centers – this ensures that on the administrative side too we stay competitive in
terms of efficiency and performance. These are generally site-independent tasks such as certain

34

Regions

Service
units

Business areas
Global corporate responsibility for
businesses
Support for cross-business measures
Corporate functions
Strategic development of the Group
Governance framework
Coordination and support
Regions
Support for growth strategies
Advice and support for businesses
in the regions
Service units
Standardization and provision of transactional processes with focus on eﬃciency
Transparent costs, performance and pricing

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

accounting, IT, real estate service and HR sub-processes. Alongside the two German locations in
Essen and Bochum we also operate regional service centers in Gdansk (Poland), Porto Alegre
(Brazil), Alpharetta (USA) and Thane (India). A further center is currently being established in China.
The Group’s structure is routinely reviewed as part of the annual strategy process and adapted if
required. This ensures that we remain competitive in line with current market conditions.

Strategy
Positioning as a diversified industrial group
Our positioning as a diversified industrial group is linked to the ambition to generate strong and
stable earnings, cash flow and value added. We diversify our businesses in several ways: through
our presence in numerous markets worldwide, a customer base spanning a range of sectors with
different cycles, and the different business models of our business areas. This diversified approach
enables us to seize growth opportunities worldwide and at the same time increase the stability of
our company in a volatile environment.
To boost our earnings strength, we are working on two levels: developing concrete measures to
achieve profitable growth in our business areas while systematically leveraging synergies within the
Group through cross-business initiatives. In the process we are increasingly focusing thyssenkrupp
on profitable capital goods and service businesses in global growth regions and sectors.
The 2016 / 2017 fiscal year was a year of major strategic decisions for thyssenkrupp. In particular
in February 2017 we reached agreement with Ternium on the sale of our Brazilian steel mill CSA;
the sale was completed in September 2017. This also now means that a key condition has been
met for contributing our European steel operations to a joint venture with Tata Steel. A
memorandum of understanding was signed on September 20, 2017. We expect several clear
advantages from the joint venture:
■ for our steel business we are creating a sustainable future in a challenging market environment
■ for thyssenkrupp, key balance sheet ratios – particularly equity ratio and gearing – will improve

significantly with the launch of the joint venture
■ and our capital goods businesses will gain more latitude to act flexibly and seize growth

opportunities.

35

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Strategy

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

Business opportunities are resulting for thyssenkrupp from global market trends that require more
and better solutions: Demographic change, urbanization, the rapid growth of mega cities, and
globalization mean that global demand is rising (“more”). At the same time the requirements to be
met by the solutions offered are increasing (“better”). The result is that we need to use resources
efficiently, reduce the environmental impact of producing consumer and capital goods, and build
more sustainable infrastructure. At the same time an increasingly connected world requires
intelligent products and solutions.

Business opportunities are resulting
from global market trends that require
more and better solutions.

B U S I N E S S O P P O R T U N I T I E S F O R T H YS S E N K R U P P

Meeting demand for “more”

in a “better” way.

through leading
engineering expertise

Demography
More consumer and
capital goods

Climate change
Reduced CO2 emissions,
renewable energies

Urbanization
More infrastructure
and buildings

Finite resources
Eﬃcient resource and energy
use, alternative energies

Globalization
More resources
and energy use

Regulatory and political
Compliant products
and services

Digitization
More digital
value creation

Increasing connectivity
Intelligent products and
holistic solutions

We use our engineering expertise to develop tailored technological and business solutions to meet
the current and future requirements of our customers and markets and to satisfy the demand for
“more” in a “better” way. We do this in many areas with our technologies, materials, industrial
processes and services, both in industrialized countries and in emerging markets. We want to
create value for – and with – our customers and gain a clear competitive edge.

Successful implementation of the Strategic Way Forward
Our program for positioning thyssenkrupp as a diversified industrial group is the Strategic Way
Forward, which we have been implementing rigorously since 2011.
The four action areas of our Strategic Way Forward:

Our Strategic Way Forward focuses on
four action areas.

Culture change: We work in a matrix structure and have set ourselves high standards in our mission
statement. Alongside a strong focus on customers and performance, our interactions are based on
a clear set of values, transparency, openness and mutual respect. Reliability, honesty, consistency,
integrity, and full compliance with the law and internal policies define everything we do.

36

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

HR strategy: Our HR work is aimed at strengthening cooperation and trust, training, and talent

development, as well as providing an efficient service for our businesses. We practice a culture that
strengthens our employees’ personal responsibility and gives them room for personal development.
Integrity and dependability are central to our work together.
Performance orientation: For all our businesses we have defined clear targets based on peer

benchmarks for earnings, cash flow and value added. The initiatives and measures to achieve
them are combined in our Groupwide efficiency program “impact”. In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year
we reviewed in particular the Group’s general and administrative costs, processes and structures
and compared them with those of external competitors. As a result we are convinced that our
general and administrative costs at €2.4 billion are too high. We are therefore aiming to reduce
them by €400 million by the end of the 2019 / 2020 fiscal year.
Customers & markets: Our aim is to grow with our markets and advance our customers by providing

competitive tailored technological solutions that create value for them. To this end we deliberately
and systematically use the strength of the integrated Group. A key role in this is played by the
initiative to strengthen our brand and our brand promise, summed up in our slogan
“engineering.tomorrow.together.”
T H YS S E N K R U P P – S T R AT E G I C WAY F O R WA R D

Culture change

HR strategy

Performance
orientation

Customers
and markets

Mission
statement

Employee
excellence

Active portfolio
management

thyssenkrupp
brand

Leadership

Employee
survey

Capital
eﬃciency

Market
intelligence

Safety & health

Continuous
benchmarking

Sector
strategies

Operational
excellence

Customer
relationships

Functional
excellence

Sales
excellence

Network
organization
Governance
Compliance
Systems &
processes

Diversity &
inclusion
HR transformation

Proﬁtable
growth

Financial
stability

Strategic
push

High-performance
portfolio

Organic
growth

Strong
cash ﬂow

Strengthen
innovation
and technology

Gearing
< 100 %
Equity ratio
> 15 %

Inorganic
growth

Investment
grade

Corporate program impact

By systematically addressing these four strategic action areas we are steadily improving the
financial situation of the Group. That in turn will provide freedom for strategic investments and
research and development, and thus for future growth. In the coming years we aim to continue to
expand profitably in the emerging growth regions and in the industrialized countries.

37

€930 million
With savings of €930 million, the
2016 / 2017 “impact” target of
€850 million was again clearly
exceeded.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

Management of the Group
The indicators used throughout the Group for profitability, value added and liquidity form the basis
for operational and strategic management decisions at thyssenkrupp. We use them to set targets,
measure performance and determine variable components of management compensation. For us,
the most important financial indicators – the key performance indicators in accordance with GAS 20
– are adjusted earnings before interest and taxes (adjusted EBIT), thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA)
and free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A).
As part of the annual strategy process the Group’s Executive Board defines long-term targets, also
for the business areas. These form the framework for the short and medium term financial targets
and also for the budget and medium term plans which have to be prepared by all units.

T H YS S E N K R U P P – K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I C ATO R S

Profitability

Value added

Liquidity

Operating earnings
+/ – operational components of
ﬁnancial income

EBIT

Operating cash flow
+/– cash ﬂows from investing
activities

EBIT

tkV A

+/– cost of capital

+/ – special items

Free cash flow
+/– cash inﬂows / outﬂows from
material M & A transactions

Adjusted EBIT

Free cash flow before M & A

Adjusted EBIT
EBIT provides information on the profitability of a unit. It contains all elements of the income
statement relating to operating performance. This also includes items of financial income/expense
that can be characterized as operational, including income and expense from investments where
there is a long-term intention to hold the assets. Adjusted EBIT is EBIT adjusted for special items,
i.e. excluding disposal losses/gains from M & A (mergers & acquisitions) transactions, restructuring
expenses, impairment charges/impairment reversals and other non-operating expenses and
income. It is more suitable than EBIT for comparing operating performance over several periods.
The adjusted EBIT of the Group and the business areas and the special items are described in
detail in the sections “Group review” and “Business area review” in the report on the economic
position. Please also refer to the reconciliation in the segment reporting (Note 23).

38

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

tkVA
tkVA is the value created in a reporting year. This indicator enables us to compare the financial
performance of businesses with different capital intensity. tkVA is calculated as EBIT minus or plus
the cost of capital employed in the business. Capital employed mainly comprises fixed assets,
inventories and receivables. Deducted from this are certain non-interest-bearing liability items such
as trade accounts payable. To obtain the cost of capital, capital employed is multiplied by the
weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which includes equity, debt and the interest rate for
pension provisions.

Capital employed x WACC =
cost of capital

Information on tkVA in the reporting year can also be found in the section “Group review”.

FCF before M & A
FCF before M & A permits a liquidity-based assessment of performance in a period by measuring
cash flows from operating activities excluding income and expenditures from material portfolio
measures. It is measured as operating cash flow less cash flows from investing activities excluding
cash inflows or outflows from material M & A transactions. This too links more directly to operating
activities and facilitates comparability in multi-period analyses.
A reconciliation and details on the development of FCF before M & A are provided in the analysis of
the statement of cash flows in the section “Results of operations and financial position”.

Targets
Ambitious targets for our financial indicators and systematic improvements in strategic areas,
including via Indirect Financial Targets, are important elements of the Strategic Way Forward with a
view to achieving our minimum requirement.

Financial targets
We are confident that we will generate strong, stable positive value added and free cash flow before
M & A again in order to provide the funds to expand our growth businesses and pay a solid
dividend to our shareholders. For this we need adjusted EBIT of at least €2 billion related to the
current continuing operations of the Group. We are convinced that we will achieve the earnings
growth needed for this minimum requirement and beyond by strictly following the Strategic Way
Forward in all business areas and at Group level. We have defined clear targets for this based on
comparisons with best-in-class peers:
■ Components Technology – Profitable growth, medium- to long-term return to adjusted EBIT

margins of 6% to 8% through successful ramp-up of new plants and continuation of efficiency
and restructuring measures

39

€2 billion
Adjusted EBIT of €2 billion is our
minimum requirement.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

■ Elevator Technology – Profitable growth and efficiency and restructuring measures for continuing

improvements to EBIT margin by 0.5 to 0.7 percentage points per year to 15% and an EBIT
contribution of over €1 billion
■ Industrial Solutions – With implementation of the “planets” transformation program, long-term
sales expansion by on average 5% per year to an absolute target level of €8 billion and an
adjusted EBIT margin of 6% to 7%; (details on “planets” can be found in the “Business area
review” section of the Report on the economic position)
■ Materials Services – Return to higher margin levels of 3 to 4% with the recovery of the materials
markets, through further efficiency measures and the successful restructuring of AST
■ Steel Europe – EBIT improvement through efficiency measures and differentiation initiatives to
sustainably earn more than the cost of capital across the sector cycle
We expect that further progress on our Strategic Way Forward will again be reflected positively in
our key performance indicators in fiscal 2017 / 2018. However, it must be borne in mind that sales
and earnings in large parts of our materials and components businesses may be subject to shortterm fluctuations. Nevertheless we expect a further strong improvement in adjusted EBIT and tkVA
and once again positive free cash flow before M & A.
More information on our key performance indicators can be found in this section under
“Management of the Group”, and details on the forecast for the current fiscal year are provided in
the forecast report.

Sustainability and Indirect Financial Targets
Sustainability is a core component of our corporate strategy. As a diversified industrial group we
aim to supply innovative products, technologies and services worldwide that contribute to the
sustainable success of our customers.

Our understanding
of sustainability
Economy

Together with our customers we are looking to the future, and our decision-making processes
include both business considerations and ecological and social aspects. The basis for this is a 360
degree view of our value and production chains. In this way we improve our performance and
strengthen the future of our company.

Products
Processes
Supply chain

Anchoring in the organization
Sustainability activities in the Group are managed and developed by the Sustainability Committee,
which is made up of the Group Executive Board, the CEOs of the business areas and heads of
various corporate functions. The interests of our stakeholders play an important role in the
orientation of our activities. In the reporting year thyssenkrupp conducted an extensive stakeholder
survey to obtain an assessment of the key issues from the perspective of customers and investors,
for example. The findings of this survey were discussed, including at an internal sustainability
conference, and are now feeding gradually into the development of targets, measures and
reporting.

Indirect Financial Targets to secure continuous improvement
thyssenkrupp aims to continuously improve its sustainability performance. To this end the
Sustainability Committee has set Indirect Financial Targets (IFTs) in the areas technology and
innovations, environment, climate, energy, purchasing and people. Progress towards these targets
is measured annually and factored into variable compensation for management via the
sustainability multiplier (more information can be found in the Compensation report).

40

Society

Environment

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

In the reporting year the IFTs for energy efficiency and occupational safety and health were
adjusted. Details on the individual targets can be found in the sections of this Annual Report listed
in the table and on our website.

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Sustainability

OV E R VI E W O F I N DI R E C T F I N A N C I A L TA R G E T S

Annual energy efficiency gains of 125 GWh in 2016 / 2017
and 150 GWh in 2017 / 2018
100% of relevant activities covered by ISO 50001
energy management system by 2019 / 2020

Sept. 30, 20161

Sept. 30, 20172

Change

Section

GWh

–

330

–

Environment, energy, climate

%

54

66

+12 % points

Environment, energy, climate

100% of relevant activities covered by ISO 14001
environmental management system by 2019 / 2020

%

78

85

+7 % points

Environment, energy, climate

Sustainable adjusted R&D intensity of around 2.5%

%

2.7

2.7

+/−0 % points

Technology and innovations

%

11.0

11.6

+0.6 % points

Employees

15% share of women in leadership positions
by 2019 / 2020
2.0 accidents per million hours worked by 2020 / 2021
and improvement of at least 10% a year

Accidents per
million hours
worked

3.8

3.1

(18)%

Employees

#

179

161

(18)

Purchasing

100 supplier sustainability audits each year
1)
On comparable basis excl. Steel Americas
² ) Continuing operations only

Report on the economic position
Macro and sector environment
Global economy gaining momentum – political risks remain high
Global economic growth in the 1st half was stronger than initially anticipated; for the first time in
some time virtually all major economies are experiencing an upturn. From just 3.0% in 2016,
global GDP growth is expected to accelerate sharply to 3.5% in 2017 and 3.6% in 2018.
Particularly in the advanced economies, sentiment indicators are high. While confidence in the
emerging countries has not yet returned to the high level of previous years, it is clearly up from the
lows recorded in mid-2016. With continuing expansionary monetary policy, the average growth rate
in the industrialized countries is expected to be above 2% in both 2017 and 2018, while in the
emerging markets the pace of expansion should also be significantly higher than in 2016 at around
4.5% (2017) and almost 5% (2018).

41

3.5%
The global economy is expected to
grow at a rate of 3.5% in 2017 and
accelerate further in 2018.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

However, the global growth outlook remains marked by major uncertainty. Current risk factors
include in particular the geopolitical imponderables resulting from the numerous flashpoints and
possible dislocations in connection with the targeted normalization of monetary policy – particularly
in the USA – which if it fails could lead to heightened uncertainty on the financial markets and a
slowing of the global economy. Also the future economic policy of the USA, with the aim of
renegotiating trade agreements such as NAFTA if necessary to the disadvantage of other
industrialized nations, represents a substantial risk for the performance of the global economy. A
sharper slowdown in China could additionally have a dampening effect on growth. Dependent on
the price situation for oil and raw materials, the economy in oil and raw materials exporting
countries is fragile. Following the Brexit referendum, uncertainty over the further course of the exit
negotiations could weigh on investment – above all in Britain itself but also in the other countries of
the EU.
Economic activity in the euro zone has accelerated perceptibly. GDP growth was strong in the first
half of 2017. Various leading indicators point to a continuation of the positive underlying trend in
the second half of the year. Key factors in this will be a further improvement in the labor market
situation and continued favorable financing conditions which should further strengthen consumer
and business spending. Overall therefore we expect the rate of economic growth in the euro zone to
increase from 1.7% in 2016 to 2.1% in 2017 and 2.0% in 2018.
The German economy also showed strong growth in the 1st half of 2017. With capacity utilization
already above average, it is on the verge of a boom. The upturn has broadened. Alongside
consumer spending, business investment and exports are gradually also helping drive the upswing.
Based on the solid outlook for sales and earnings, capital spending is expected to intensify;
household consumption will profit from the continuing favorable labor market situation and solid
growth in disposable income. For the German economy overall, growth rates of 2.0% in 2017 and
2.1% in 2018 are forecast.
The US economy has also gained momentum over the course of the year to date. After a weak
start, the pace of growth has noticeably picked up. At the time of reporting, indicators point to
continued strong expansion. With interest rates remaining low and incomes rising, domestic
demand will continue to increase strongly. Overall the US economy is expected to expand by 2.1%
in 2017 and 2.7% in 2018. The impact of the hurricane season on economic growth is difficult to
estimate at present but represents a downside risk for the forecast.
After 6.7% growth last year, economic growth in China is expected to increase slightly to 6.8% in
2017 – mainly on the back of government stimulus programs. For 2018 slightly weaker growth of
6.5% is forecast. In view of the successful stabilization of the economy in the form of expansionary
fiscal policies, the Chinese government is now expected to turn its attention to curbing the rise in
debt and supporting the structural change towards a higher value-added service economy. India’s
economy is being temporarily held back but the underlying trend remains strong. After
demonetization noticeably slowed economic activity at the turn of 2016 / 2017, the introduction of a
single national sales tax dampened growth in the 2nd quarter. For this reason Indian GDP will grow
by only 6.5% in 2017 but by 7.5% in 2018. Brazil found its way out of recession in the 1st half of
2017. Against a background of stronger global growth and higher raw materials prices, the
recovery is likely to continue but not develop any great momentum due to continued high

42

The US economy has also gained
momentum over the course of the year
to date.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

unemployment and household debt. After 0.4% in 2017, GDP growth of 2.1% is forecast for 2018.
Russia’s economy also rallied further in the 1st half of 2017. However, the uncertain political
situation and structural factors will inhibit growth. Economic output is expected to increase by 1.6%
in 2017 and 2.0% in 2018.

GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT

2017 1)

2018 1)

Real change compared with previous year in %
Euro zone

2.0
2.1

Germany

2.1
2.0

Russia

2.0
1.6

Rest of Central /
Eastern Europe

2.9
3.1

USA

2.7
2.1

Brazil

2.1
0.4

Japan

1.0
1.4

China

6.5
6.8

India

7.5
6.5

Middle East

3.6
3.0

World

1)

3.6
3.5

Forecast

Heterogeneous trend in industrial activity
Automotive – Global car and light truck production will continue to rise – albeit at a slower pace. In

2017 output is expected to increase by 2% to 92 million units. For 2018 moderate growth of just
below 1% is currently forecast, bringing total production in 2018 to 93 million units. Once again
this growth will be very unevenly distributed: After strong growth in the past, frontrunner China is
expected to achieve a steady 1% increase to up to 27.5 million units in the next two years. In
Western Europe production growth of almost 2% is forecast for 2017 and 1% for 2018. In Germany
we anticipate a slight decline of 1% in 2017 and almost 2% in 2018. In the USA a 7% decline in
output is expected in 2017. In 2018 US output could stabilize with modest growth of 1%. This
year’s growth is happening across the border in Mexico. The 16% rise in output reflects the
increasing importance of Mexico as a production location and sales market in the NAFTA region.
For auto production in India we forecast strong growth of more than 5% in 2017 and over 8% in
2018. After a recovery in auto production in Brazil, growth of over 18% is anticipated in 2017 and
7% in 2018, albeit from a very low baseline in 2016.

43

92 million
Global car and light truck production
to reach around 92 million units in
2017.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

I M P O R TAN T S A L E S M A R KE T S
2016

20171)

20181)

World

90.6

92.0

93.0

Western Europe (incl. Germany)

14.6

14.8

15.0

5.9

5.8

5.7

12.0

11.1

11.2

3.5

4.0

4.2

Vehicle production, million cars and light trucks

Germany
USA
Mexico
Japan

8.8

9.2

8.8

China

27.0

27.2

27.5

India

4.1

4.3

4.7

Brazil

2.0

2.4

2.6

Machinery production, real, in % versus prior year
Germany

0.0

3.0

3.0

(3.8)

3.5

2.3

Japan

1.9

9.6

2.5

China

6.6

8.8

5.4

Germany

4.0

3.0

2.5

USA

3.5

3.0

4.1

China

6.8

5.4

4.8

India

4.2

5.2

6.7

USA

Construction output, real, in % versus prior year

Forecast
Sources: IHS Markit, Oxford Economics, national associations, own estimates
1)

Machinery – After comparatively weak growth in 2016, global machinery production will pick up

pace in 2017 thanks to a clear improvement in demand for capital goods and show moderate
growth in 2018. In China the growth rate will increase to around 9%, remaining solid in 2018 at
around 5.4%. After a weak year in 2016, the US machinery sector could achieve clear 3.5% growth
in production in 2017, on the back of increased demand for mining machinery in particular. For
2018 slightly slower growth is expected. In Europe, too, moderate growth in machinery production
in 2016 will be followed by stronger growth of 3.5% in 2017, and only slightly slower growth in
2018.

44

Significantly stronger growth in global
machinery production thanks to
improved capital goods demand.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The output of the export-oriented German machinery sector stagnated in 2016. Against
expectations there are signs of a clear upward trend for the current year. The revised year-on-year
forecast is based mainly on the strong growth in orders from partner countries in the euro zone and
good business in China. Cumulatively over the first six months, German machinery exports were
around 6% higher year-on-year. At almost 88% in mid-2017, capacity utilization was also above
the long-term industry average for the first time since 2012. On account of the clearly improved
order situation and the generally positive sentiment indicators, production is expected to increase
by around 3% in both 2017 and 2018.
Construction – Construction activity in the euro zone is expected to grow by around 2.5% in both

2017 and 2018. German construction output increased by 4% in 2016 and has shown even
stronger year-on-year growth in 2017 to date. The continuing trend towards urbanization, a solid
labor market, and persistently low mortgage rates should continue to boost housing construction,
while public sector construction should also increase due to higher investment in roads, railways
and waterways. Commercial construction should additionally contribute to the sector’s growth,
driven particularly by increased investment activity in manufacturing industry. Construction output
in Germany will grow by at least 3.0% in 2017 and 2.5% in 2018. Construction growth in China will
slow slightly due to regulatory interventions by the government that have dampened the rise in
house prices. Growth of 5.4% is forecast for 2017, falling to 4.8% in 2018 due to slightly slower
economic momentum. The US real estate market has lost some of its momentum recently. Both
building permits and building starts have been trending downwards over recent months. US
construction output is forecast to grow by 3% in 2017 and 4% in 2018.
Steel – With economic growth accelerating, steel demand has risen more robustly in many regions

in 2017 than we expected at the start of the year. There are signs that in real terms, adjusted for
statistical effects in China, demand worldwide will increase by 3% versus 2016, corresponding to a
total volume of around 1.6 billion tons of finished steel. Above all the steel market in China
continued to expand – by 3% in real terms. This and the fact that at the same time Chinese exports
decreased contributed to an increase in the relevant raw materials and steel prices worldwide. But
in most industrialized countries too, steel demand rose faster than anticipated. Year-on-year growth
of over 2% is expected for the EU and Germany, and 5% for the USA. However the situation for the
industry remains difficult: Structural overcapacities worldwide, rising protectionism and resulting
dislocations in international steel trade flows, extremely volatile raw materials markets and
continuing political uncertainties continue to characterize the environment and overshadow the
economic recovery particularly in our core European market.
In the period January to August 2017, the flat carbon steel market in the EU recorded moderate 1%
growth year-on-year. With continuing robust economic growth, steel demand in the relevant sectors
increased; against expectations the auto industry was again a driving force. Nevertheless the
competitive situation for the European steel industry remained challenging. European
manufacturers were unable to take advantage of the increased demand and their sales in the EU
even fell slightly year-on-year, while import pressure increased further. On average over the first
eight months of 2017 flat steel imports to the EU from third countries increased 10% against the
year before, though from June the trend was moderately down. While imports from China and
Russia fell sharply over the full period on account of the trade measures introduced, imports from

45

2.5%
Construction activity in the euro zone
expected to grow by around 2.5% in
both 2017 and 2018.

Higher steel demand but continued
overcapacities and extremely volatile
raw materials markets.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

other countries which are not the focus of the EU trade measures increased all the more sharply.
This chiefly concerned India and Turkey, both of which massively expanded their flat steel
shipments to the EU. The EU also recorded significantly higher imports from other Asian countries
compared with the year before.
On the European spot market the strong uptrend in steel prices continued in the first quarter of
2017, not least due to the increase in raw materials prices. Subsequently the prices for flat steel
slipped temporarily – with raw materials prices extremely volatile. However, from August they
recovered again following a strong price surge in China and a renewed increase in raw materials
prices.
Global steel demand is expected to trend slowly upwards again in 2018 with economic growth
prospects remaining favorable. However, unlike in 2017, no further impetus will come from China,
as the Chinese steel market is expected to stagnate at a high level. However, in the other emerging
countries, e.g. India, Brazil, the ASEAN nations and Turkey, we expect accelerated market growth.
In the industrialized countries only a slight increase in steel demand is anticipated. For the USA, the
EU and Germany, we expect steel market growth of around 1% versus 2017. As there are no signs
that the global overcapacities can be reduced quickly and protectionism is likely to increase further,
steel trade flows will continue to be diverted towards the EU, so import pressure on the European
steel market will remain high.

Summarized assessment by the Executive Board
Important milestones reached on Strategic Way Forward – gearing
significantly reduced
thyssenkrupp achieved important milestones on the Strategic Way Forward in the reporting year. As
part of the Group’s transformation the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA to Ternium was followed
on September 20, 2017 by the signing of a memorandum of understanding with Tata Steel to
combine our European steel activities in a 50 / 50 joint venture. Alongside these strategic steps
forward we recorded pleasing earnings improvements: adjusted EBIT increased year-on-year in
each quarter and the target set at the start of the fiscal year was significantly exceeded. This
positive operating performance was also reflected in our revised earnings forecast in the half-year
report. It was supported by EBIT effects from cost reductions and efficiency gains of €930 million
under the corporate program “impact” as well as by the increasing focus on the higher-margin and
less volatile capital goods businesses.
However, impairment charges due to the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA to Ternium impacted
the earnings of the discontinued operations. Adjusted EBIT of the continuing operations showed a
clear increase year-on-year.

46

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The significantly higher net working capital requirement of our materials businesses due to the
dislocations on the raw materials markets, the payment profile of orders at Industrial Solutions, and
the growth and commissioning of new plants at Components Technologies resulted in clearly negative
FCF before M & A after 9 months. Strongly positive FCF before M & A with positive business cash flow
contributions from all business areas in the final quarter was unable to offset this; full-year FCF
before M & A was therefore significantly lower year-on-year.
The Group’s net financial debt at €2.0 billion was significantly lower than the prior-year figure
(€3.5 billion), mainly reflecting the Group’s positive free cash flow after the closing of the CSA
transaction and the cash inflow from the capital increase.
The Group’s equity increased to €3.4 billion (prior year €2.6 billion) mainly as a result of the capital
increase and the remeasurement of pensions due to higher interest rates. This was partly offset by
the net loss reported for the year.
Gearing was therefore reduced significantly in the reporting year to 57.5% (prior year: 134.2%).
With cash and cash equivalents and undrawn committed credit lines totaling €9.1 billion
(September 30, 2017) and a balanced and extended maturity profile, thyssenkrupp is solidly
financed.

Further significant improvement to performance and risk profile
thyssenkrupp’s performance and risk profile again improved significantly in many areas of the
Group in the past fiscal year. With a slight margin improvement, Components Technology
substantially increased its adjusted EBIT and continued its growth and regionalization strategy.
Major customer awards for our delivery performance and development efforts are proof of our
customers’ trust in us. Elevator Technology again significantly improved its earnings and margin
and presented an innovative product in MULTI for which a first order has been received. At the
same time there are signs of a turnaround at Industrial Solutions with a strong project pipeline and
strong order intake. The widening of the efficiency program on top of previously initiated measures
is expected to reduce costs by a three-digit million euro amount. Materials Services introduced
further measures for the digital transformation and made major progress in implementing the
business plan for the stainless steel producer AST. Steel Europe increased its earnings and margin
significantly thanks to higher average net selling prices, supported by efficiency measures and
differentiation initiatives. The signing of a memorandum of understanding with Tata Steel to
combine our European steel activities in a 50 / 50 joint venture will create a sustainable future and
tackle the structural challenges facing the European steel industry. The sale of CSA to Ternium
completed the exit of Steel Americas, a further important milestone on our Strategic Way Forward.
Future measures at Corporate and in all business areas are expected to reduce general and
administrative expenses by around €400 million by the end of fiscal year 2019 / 2020.

47

€2 billion
Net financial debt significantly lower
year-on-year.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

In view of what has been achieved we look forward to the new fiscal year with optimism and expect
a further increase in earnings. We will systematically continue thyssenkrupp’s transformation into a
powerful, profitable and value-creating diversified industrial group.

We look forward to the new fiscal year
and further earnings increases with
optimism.

More information on our target achievement in the reporting year can be found in the “Forecastactual comparison”. Details of our business performance are included in the “Group review” and
“Business area review”. Details of our forecast for the current fiscal year and our opportunities and
risks are contained in the “Forecast, opportunity and risk report”.
Key figures for the full Group and the continuing operations versus the prior year are shown in the
following table:

T H YS S E N K R UP P I N F I G U R E S
Full Group

Continuing operations

Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017

Year ended
Year ended
in % Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017

Change

in %

Order intake

million €

37,424

44,288

6,864

18

36,125

42,756

6,631

18

Net sales

million €

39,263

42,971

3,709

9

38,000

41,447

3,447

9

EBIT 1)

million €

1,189

687

(502)

(42)

1,209

1,150

(59)

(5)

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT 1)
Adjusted EBIT margin

Change

%

3.0

1.6

(1.4)

—

3.2

2.8

(0.4)

—

million €

1,469

1,910

441

30

1,500

1,722

222

15

%

3.7

4.4

0.7

—

3.9

4.2

0.2

—

EBT

million €

652

61

(591)

(91)

691

765

73

11

Net income/(loss) /
Income/(loss) (net of tax)

million €

261

(591)

(852)

--

357

271

(86)

(24)
(32)

attributable to thyssenkrupp AG's
shareholders

million €

296

(649)

(946)

--

311

212

(99)

€

0.52

(1.15)

(1.67)

--

0.55

0.37

(0.17)

(32)

Operating cash flows

million €

1,387

610

(777)

(56)

1,310

483

(827)

(63)

Cash flow for investments

million €

(1,387)

(1,666)

(279)

(20)

(1,277)

(1,535)

(258)

(20)

Cash flow from divestments

million €

191

1,545

1,354

++

189

1,539

1,350

++

Free cash flow 2)

million €

191

489

297

155

222

487

265

119

Free cash flow before M&A 2)

million €

198

(798)

(996)

--

228

(855)

(1,083)

--

Net financial debt (Sept. 30)

million €

3,500

1,957

(1,543)

(44)

Total equity (Sept. 30)

Earnings per share (EPS)

million €

2,609

3,404

796

31

Gearing (Sept. 30)

%

134.2

57.5

(76.7)

—

ROCE

%

7.5

4.1

(3.4)

—

million €

(85)

(651)

(566)

--

€

0.15

0.15

3)

—

—

million €

85

933)

—

—

156,487

158,739

2,252

1

thyssenkrupp Value Added
Dividend per share
Dividend payout
Employees (Sept. 30)
1)
2)
3)

See reconciliation in segment reporting (Note 23).
See reconciliation in the analysis of the statement of cash flows.
Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

48

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Forecast-actual comparison
We exceeded both the earnings target for the Group formulated at the start of the reporting year
and the earnings target for the continuing operations presented in the half-year report after the sale
of CSA. Our efficiency program “impact” played a key role in this. The Group’s earnings target as
revised in the half-year report also takes into account in particular the profitable growth at
Components Technology and Elevator Technology and the good performance of Steel Americas.

Earnings targets achieved; value
added and cash flow lower than
planned.

The main reason that we did not achieve the clear improvement in net income and tkVA targeted at
the start of the fiscal year was the negative earnings impact of the sale of CSA. This effect was also
taken into account in the revised forecast in the half-year report.
The target for free cash flow before M&A (FCF before M&A) formulated at the start of the fiscal year
was conditional on there being no sustained dislocations on the raw materials markets. As these
dislocations did come about, causing a significant increase in net working capital at our materials
businesses due to higher volumes and prices, we were unable to meet our target. This was
anticipated in the revised forecast in the half-year report. In addition, delays in order intake at
Industrial Solutions resulted in a prolonged period of underutilization and a much lower than
expected contribution to earnings and cash flow. Also, the earlier than expected closing of the sale
of CSA to Ternium in the 4th quarter meant that the originally anticipated higher net working capital
release from CSA towards the end of the fiscal year was absent. The correspondingly adjusted
forecast for FCF before M&A presented in the report on the first 9 months was achieved.
In general the Group’s positive business performance was again strongly supported by our
corporate program: The “impact” target of reducing costs by €850 million that we set for
2016 / 2017 at the beginning of the fiscal year was again substantially exceeded with savings of
€930 million.
More information on the factors that influenced the development of earnings is contained in the
sections “Group review” and “Business area review”.
The following chart contains details on the forecasts, updated in each case on publication of the
interim reports on the 1st half and the first 9 months of the reporting year, and the actual results in
2016 / 2017:

49

The Group’s positive business
performance was again strongly
supported by our corporate program.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

F O R E C A S T AN D AC T U A L R E S U LT S F O R F I S C A L Y E AR 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7
Forecast in
annual report 2015 / 2016

Group sales

Growth on comparable basis
in single-digit % range

Sales of
continuing operations
(from 1st half 2016 / 2017)
Components Technology
Elevator Technology
Industrial Solutions

Update in interim report
1st half 2016 / 2017

Update in interim report
9 months 2016 / 2017

On comparable basis: +9%

Growth on comparable basis
in high single-digit % range

On comparable basis: +9%
Capital goods businesses on
comparable basis in singledigit % range, slight decline at
Industrial Solutions

On comparable basis in singledigit % range
Decline in single-digit % range

Materials Services

On comparable basis: +11%
On comparable basis: +3%
On comparable basis: (6)%
On comparable basis: +15%

Steel Europe

On comparable basis: +17%

On comparable basis in twodigit percentage range

Steel Americas
(from 1st half 2016 / 2017
discontinued operation)
Adjusted EBIT (Group)

Actual fiscal year 2016 / 2017

On comparable basis: +32%
Around €1.7 billion

Adjusted EBIT of
continuing operations
(from 1st half 2016 / 2017)

Around €1.8 billion

Year-on-year improvement by
€441 million to €1,910 million

Around €1.7 billion

Year-on-year improvement by
€222 million to €1,722 million

Components Technology

Improvement from slight increase Improvement from significant
in sales and margin
increase in sales and margin

Improvement by €42 million
to €377 million

Elevator Technology

Improvement through slight sales
growth and improvement in
margin by 0.5 to 0.7 percentage
points

Improvement by €62 million
to €922 million with 0.5
percentage point improvement in
margin to 12.0%

Industrial Solutions

Decline in adjusted EBIT

Decline by €244 million
to €111 million
with 4.2 percentage point decline
in margin to 2.0%

Materials Services

Significant improvement versus
prior year

Improvement by €184 million
to €312 million
Improvement by €232 million
to €547 million

Steel Europe
Steel Americas
(from 1st half 2016 / 2017
discontinued operation)

At prior-year level

Significant improvement versus
prior year

Improvement by €219 million to
€186 million

Significant improvement

Clearly negative due to
negative earnings impact of
sale of CSA

Decline by €852 million to
€(591) million

tkVA (Group)

Significant improvement

Clearly negative due to
negative earnings impact of
sale of CSA

Decline by €566 million to
€(651) million

FCF before M & A (Group)

Slightly positive

Negative in mid three-digit
million euro range

Investments (Group)

Around €1.5 billion

Net income (Group)

Negative in mid to higher
three-digit million euro range

Decline by €996 million to
€(798) million
Increase versus prior year by
€279 million to €1,666 million

50

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Group review
Course of business
Order intake, sales and adjusted EBIT significantly higher year-on-year
In the past fiscal year the order intake of the thyssenkrupp Group reached its highest level since the
start of the Strategic Way Forward. Order intake in the components business and elevator division
reached new record levels, while Industrial Solutions achieved its biggest order intake in five years.
The Group’s sales increased year-on-year by 9%, with the sales of the capital goods businesses
growing in total and sales of the materials businesses Materials Services and Steel Europe
exceeding the prior-year figures, mainly due to higher prices. Adjusted EBIT of the Group and the
continuing operations was likewise significantly higher than in fiscal year 2015 / 2016.

The Group achieved its highest order
intake since the start of the Strategic
Way Forward.

O R D E R I NTA K E BY B U SI N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Change on a
comparable basis1)
in %

Components Technology

6,740

7,674

14

14

Elevator Technology

7,631

7,834

3

3

Industrial Solutions

3,461

6,490

88

84

Materials Services

11,840

13,760

16

16

8,146

8,969

10

10

million €

Steel Europe
Corporate

243

287

18

18

Consolidation

(1,936)

(2,257)

—

—

Order intake of the continuing
operations

36,125

42,756

18

18

Steel Americas

1,525

1,874

23

29

Consolidation

(226)

(343)

—

—

37,424

44,288

18

18

Total order intake
1)

Excluding material currency and portfolio effects

Strong rise in order intake
The order intake of the capital goods businesses Components Technology, Elevator Technology
and Industrial Solutions showed double-digit growth rates overall. In the elevator division order
intake reached a new record level. Orders in hand also reached a high level again (€4.8 billion excl.
service). At the same time there were signs of a turnaround at Industrial Solutions with a strong
project pipeline and strong order intake. In the Marine Systems unit this was reflected by two major
orders in the submarine and surface vessel business. In addition we were nominated as exclusive
strategic partner for the Norwegian-German submarine program. Despite a continuing volatile
market environment, the cement plant business was stable and demand for chemical plants and
the Mining business showed first signs of a market recovery. Numerous smaller and midsize orders
for machinery, plants and services as well as several major orders contributed to the positive trend in
order intake. In the System Engineering business order intake reached a new record level, mainly
thanks to continued high demand for production systems for the auto industry.

51

Order intake of the capital goods
businesses showed double-digit
growth rates overall.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

We also achieved new records in the components business. Overall robust demand growth for car
components in Western Europe and China offset a mainly destocking-led decline in demand in the
USA. The market environment for heavy trucks was positive following subdued demand a year
earlier. There was also a slight recovery in demand, albeit at a low level, for construction equipment
components.

We also achieved new records in the
components business.

Particularly pleasing was the customer recognition we received for our steering business from Ford
with the “World Excellence Award” for outstanding customer support and development, and the
“Volkswagen Group Award”, which we received among other things for outstanding product
launches.
At our materials businesses Materials Services and Steel Europe order intake was significantly
higher year-on-year, reflecting above all the trend reversal in the 2nd fiscal half. The improvement
was primarily due to sharply increased prices on the materials markets.

N E T S A L E S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Change on a
comparable basis1)
in %

Components Technology

6,807

7,571

11

11

Elevator Technology

7,468

7,674

3

3

Industrial Solutions

5,744

5,522

(4)

(6)

Materials Services

11,886

13,665

15

15

7,633

8,915

17

17

255

278

9

9

Consolidation

(1,793)

(2,179)

—

—

Sales of the continuing operations

38,000

41,447

9

9

1,489

1,848

24

32

(227)

(323)

—

39,263

42,971

9

million €

Steel Europe
Corporate

Steel Americas
Consolidation
Total net sales
1)

9

Excluding material currency and portfolio effects

Strong sales growth
Sales of the capital goods businesses overall were once again higher year-on-year. Components
Technology recorded rising shipments of auto components. At Elevator Technology sales were up
from an already high prior-year level mainly due to numerous installations of elevators and
escalators in the USA and South Korea. At Industrial Solutions, Marine Systems, System
Engineering and cement plant engineering increased their sales year-on-year but a lower number
of billed project milestones in the chemical plant engineering and Mining businesses resulted in a
decline in sales.
The materials businesses Materials Services and Steel Europe increased their sales significantly. At
Steel Europe the recovery of average net selling prices from the 2nd quarter along with rising
shipments resulted in a clear increase in sales.

52

Overall sales of the capital goods
businesses were significantly higher
year-on-year.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

S A L E S BY R E G I O N
in million € (prior-year ﬁgures in brackets)
Western Europe

7,597
(6,871)

Central and
German-speaking Eastern Europe
Commonwealth
area1)
of Independent
States
2,401
(2,163)

North America

12,837

391
(361)

(11,514)

8,733

Greater
China

3,022
(2,864)

(8,118)

India

Asia / Pacific

1,564
(1,821)

518

Middle East &
Africa

South America

(539)

3,078
(2,427)

1,306
(1,322)

1)

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein

S A L E S BY C U S TO M E R G R O U P 2016/2017
in %

27
Automotive

9
Engineering

12

12

11

Steel and related
processing

Trading

Construction

5
Public sector

2

3

Energy and
utilities

Packaging

53

19
Other customer
groups

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The regional breakdown of sales of the continuing operations was largely stable. The most
important sales market for thyssenkrupp with a slightly higher 31% of sales was once again the
German-speaking region (Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein). Sales to customers in
North America gained in absolute importance; here growth at Components Technology and
Elevator Technology outweighed the decline at Industrial Solutions. Sales growth in the Middle East
& Africa is mainly attributable to our cement plant construction business.
Accounting for a share of now 27% of sales, the automotive industry remained the most important
customer group for our continuing operations, particularly for our components and steel
businesses. It is followed by steel and related processing and trading. The share of sales
accounted for by the construction industry remained stable at 11%, while the engineering sector
gained relatively in importance.

Adjusted EBIT up significantly year-on-year
In an environment marked by high political uncertainty and volatile raw material prices the adjusted
EBIT of the Group and the continuing operations increased at a double-digit rate in the reporting
year and was significantly higher year-on-year in all quarters. At Group level EBIT effects from cost
reductions and efficiency gains of €930 million under the corporate program “impact” made a
major contribution to this. The “impact” target of €850 million set at the beginning of the reporting
year was again significantly exceeded.

A D J U S T E D E B I T BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Components Technology

335

377

12

Elevator Technology

860

922

7

Industrial Solutions

355

111

(69)

Materials Services

128

312

143

Steel Europe

315

547

74

(497)

(535)

(8)

million €

Corporate
Consolidation
Adjusted EBIT of the continuing operations
Steel Americas

4

(12)

—

1,500

1,722

15

(33)

186

++

2

3

—

1,469

1,910

30

Consolidation
Total adjusted EBIT 1)
1)

See reconciliation in segment reporting (Note 23).

Despite sustained efficiency and cost-reduction measures, adjusted EBIT of the capital goods
businesses was slightly lower year-on-year. Profitable growth at Components Technology and
growth and continued margin and earnings improvements at Elevator Technology were unable to
offset the temporary decline at Industrial Solutions. While adjusted EBIT margin at Components
Technology increased slightly to 5.0% in the reporting year, Elevator Technology once again
improved its margin by 0.5 points to 12.0%, increasing its earnings and margin year-on-year in the
final quarter for the 20th time in a row. Adjusted EBIT at Industrial Solutions was significantly lower
year-on-year due to weak order intake in previous years, partial underutilization and low earnings

54

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

contributions from Marine Systems. Marine Systems and the chemical plant engineering business
recorded a substantial temporary decline in margin and earnings. Adjusted EBIT margin at
Industrial Solutions came to 2.0% overall in the reporting year, well below the target range of 6 to 7%.
Adjusted EBIT at the materials businesses Materials Services and Steel Europe was significantly
higher year-on-year, also supported by cost saving programs. Materials Services increased its
adjusted EBIT significantly year-on-year in all quarters, more than doubling it overall. A positive
contribution to this was made by the Italian company AST, which despite volatile stainless steel
prices continued to make good progress in implementing its business plan and achieved
sustainable restructuring gains. While sharply rising raw material prices above all in the 1st quarter
and a blast furnace reline at Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann GmbH (HKM) impacted earnings at
Steel Europe, earnings and margin began to improve from the 2nd quarter, mainly due to higher
selling prices. Overall the significantly higher average selling prices and slight increase in
shipments bolstered earnings in the materials businesses.

Adjusted EBIT of the materials
businesses was significantly higher
year-on-year.

Adjusted EBIT at Corporate came to €(535) million in fiscal 2016 / 2017, down by €38 million from
the prior year. It continued to include project expenses in connection with the digital initiatives.
At Steel Americas (discontinued operation) adjusted EBIT increased significantly year-on-year,
mainly due to higher prices.

Earnings impacted by special items
The Group’s EBIT was impacted by special items totaling €1,224 million in the reporting year. A
large portion of this was attributable to negative earnings effects in connection with the sale of
Steel Americas (discontinued operation) in the 2nd quarter. In addition there were special items at
Steel Americas due to the updating of a long-term freight contract. The impacts on the continuing
operations were significantly higher in the reporting year than a year earlier; they were mainly
caused by restructuring and reorganization measures at Elevator Technology and Industrial
Solutions.

S P E C I A L I T E M S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change

(4)

Components Technology

84

80

Elevator Technology

90

185

96

Industrial Solutions

22

147

126

Materials Services

52

91

39

Steel Europe

(1)

55

56

Corporate

45

35

(10)

Consolidation

0

(22)

—

Special items from continuing operations

291

572

281

Steel Americas

(11)

630

641

0

22

—

280

1,224

944

Consolidation
Total special items

55

The impacts on EBIT were mainly
caused by the sale of CSA.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

In the reporting period there were special items on a notable scale at Components Technology
caused by restructurings and capacity adjustments at Forging & Machining in Brazil, at the “Heavy
Crankshafts” business in Germany and in construction equipment components in Italy, as well as
by non-period expenses in the steering systems business. At Elevator Technology there were
special items relating to restructuring and reorganization in Europe and the Middle East. At
Industrial Solutions there were special items in connection with restructuring measures in the plant
engineering business and the reorganization. Further mainly restructuring-related special items
occurred at Materials Services and due to the winding down of Gleistechnik. At Steel Europe special
items mainly reflected restructuring expenses in the heavy plate unit. At Corporate the special
items mainly resulted from expenses in connection with disposal projects.

thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA) down sharply from prior year
In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year the tkVA of the thyssenkrupp Group remained negative. The positive
trend as a result of our operating performance could not offset the negative earnings impact
connected with the sale of CSA. The highest tkVA was once again generated by Elevator
Technology. While earnings at Components Technology improved significantly, capital employed
also increased due to the growth investments. At Industrial Solutions capital employed was also
significantly higher; with negative operating earnings tkVA was down sharply from the year before.
Mainly on the back of strong earnings improvements, tkVA for the materials businesses was clearly
higher year-on-year but remained negative. At Materials Services we also succeeded in lowering
capital employed by reducing net working capital. At Steel Europe capital employed was slightly
higher year-on-year, mainly due to the price-related increase in net working capital. Details on tkVA
and its main components are shown in the following table.

T H YS S E N K R UP P VA LU E A D D E D ( T K VA ) BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

Group

Year ended Sept. 30, 2017

EBIT
(million €)

Capital
employed
(million €)

WACC
(%)

tkVA
(million €)

EBIT
(million €)

Capital
employed
(million €)

WACC
(%)

tkVA
(million €)

Change tkVA
(million €)

1,189

15,933

8.0

(85)

687

16,728

8.0

(651)

(566)

Thereof:
Components Technology

251

3,587

8.5

(54)

297

3,740

8.5

(21)

32

Elevator Technology

771

1,197

7.5

681

736

1,127

7.5

652

(29)

Industrial Solutions

333

(475)

8.0

371

(36)

430

8.0

(71)

(442)
161

Materials Services

76

3,861

8.0

(233)

220

3,652

8.0

(72)

Steel Europe

316

5,012

8.5

(110)

493

5,286

8.5

43

154

Steel Americas

(22)

2,145

10.0

(236)

(444)

1,654

10.0

(609)

(373)

More information on the importance of tkVA and EBIT for the management of the Group is
contained in the section “Fundamental information about the Group”, subsection “Management of
the Group”.

56

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Business area review
Components Technology

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Corporate structure

CO M P O N E N T S T E C H N O LO G Y I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

million €

6,740

7,674

14

Net sales

million €

6,807

7,571

11

EBIT

million €

251

297

18

%

3.7

3.9

—

million €

335

377

12

4.9

5.0

—

30,751

32,904

7

Order intake

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

The Components Technology business area produces and markets high-tech components
worldwide for the automotive and machinery sectors. In the auto sector our product range includes
steering and damping systems, springs and stabilizers produced by our Chassis unit, camshafts,
cylinder head cover modules with integrated camshafts and crankshafts from our Powertrain unit,
plus the assembly of axle modules. In the machinery sector the business area supplies high-quality
components for construction equipment, wind turbines and numerous general engineering
applications. This broad spectrum of products is built on years of experience in innovative materials
and forging processes within the business area. Components Technology covers the entire value
chain, from the development and manufacture of high-performance components through to
machining and complex assembly processes. Mechatronic solutions using electronics and software
developed in-house are playing an increasingly important role. With our end-to-end technical
expertise and global market presence we want to be a reliable partner providing customers with
real added value.

Continuing on growth track – awards for supplier performance
In a mixed market environment, order intake at Components Technology was up from the prior year
by 14%, sales by 11%. While the markets for car components in Western Europe and China were
robust with slight growth, demand in the USA weakened due in part to very high inventories. In
Brazil, in an economic and political climate marked by uncertainty, demand remained weak until
April 2017 and then picked up slightly against the very low prior-year level. The heavy truck
markets benefited mainly from the positive trend in China. In Europe demand improved only slightly,
in the USA there were initial signs of a recovery in the Class 8 market (> 15 t), Brazil remained weak.
In the industrial components business we registered strong growth in orders for slewing bearings
for applications in infrastructure projects. There was a clear pick-up in demand for construction
equipment components, albeit from a low level.
The thyssenkrupp steering systems business received two prominent awards from customers in the
auto sector in the reporting period: Ford honored us with the World Excellence Award in the Special
Recognition category, which acknowledges suppliers who deliver outstanding performance in
development and customer support. Volkswagen conferred on us the 2017 Volkswagen Group

57

Components Technology covers the
entire value chain.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Award in the Global Champion category in recognition of successful product launches, the
construction of new plants in China and Mexico, our global localization approach and our
successful management of complex projects for Volkswagen and Audi.
At the start of the new fiscal year the two business units Forging & Machining and Undercarriages
are being combined to form the new Forged Technologies business unit. As a diversified supplier of
forged components and system solutions, the new business unit will be able to use our global
production network more efficiently and leverage synergies particularly in procurement and
administration. Forged Technologies will hold a leading market position in heavy-duty crankshafts
and machinery components for the construction, mining and agricultural sectors. Alongside its
current products it also aims to develop new products for new markets and customer segments in
the future. Within the organization, the new unit will be part of the industrial components business
of Components Technology.
We continued our growth and regionalization strategy in the reporting year. We are expanding our
production operations in Hungary so that alongside front and rear axle assembly we will also be
manufacturing cylinder head cover modules with integrated camshafts, electric power assisted
steering systems, springs and stabilizers. In Mexico we are widening our product spectrum to
include cylinder head cover modules, active dampers and electric steering systems. We are setting
up two further highly automated plants in China following new orders from international and
Chinese OEMs for electric steering systems, springs and stabilizers.

Higher earnings
Adjusted EBIT of Components Technology was again significantly higher than a year earlier.
Positive factors were above all improvements in car components among other things for steering
systems and cover modules, which more than offset the weak market performance in Brazil. The
earnings figure contains startup costs for the new plants we are setting up among other things for
the manufacture of our electric steering systems. Initial shipments have already been carried out
and will continue in the new fiscal year. Adjusted EBIT margin was up slightly from the prior year.
EBIT was higher year-on-year – among other things due to reduced special items.

Elevator Technology
E L E VATO R T E C H N O L OG Y I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Orders in hand (Sept. 30)

million €

4,974

4,814

(3)

Order intake

million €

7,631

7,834

3

Net sales

million €

7,468

7,674

3

EBIT

million €

771

736

(4)

%

10.3

9.6

—

million €

860

922

7

%

11.5

12.0

—

51,426

52,660

2

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

58

€377 million
Adjusted EBIT again significantly
higher than a year earlier.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The Elevator Technology business area delivers innovative technology for efficient mobility in our
modern cities. It supplies passenger and freight elevators, escalators and moving walks, passenger
boarding bridges, stair and platform lifts as well as providing service for the entire product range. A
tight-knit service network with highly skilled employees at over 1,000 locations keeps us close to
customers with our customized, intelligent, reliable and safe solutions and services for personal
transportation

Further increased order intake and sales
At €7.8 billion, the business area’s order intake in the reporting year was almost 3% up from the
prior year. Elevator Technology continues to profit from increased demand for new installations,
especially in the USA, South Korea and Europe. The number of new installations in China was level
with the year before, though the order volume was down due to increased price pressure. Service
business, which is particularly important for the business area, showed growth in all regions.
Orders in hand remained at a high level in the reporting year and on September 30, 2017 stood at
€4.8 billion.
Elevator Technology’s sales in the reporting year increased to €7.7 billion. Sales increased particularly
strongly in the USA and South Korea, while sales in Europe and China were flat year-on-year.

Further milestones achieved in thyssenkrupp Elevator’s global strategy
In the implementation of our comprehensive growth strategy we achieved further milestones in
fiscal 2016 / 2017. In May thyssenkrupp Elevator opened its new elevator factory in Pune, India,
and a further 248 m tall elevator test tower is currently being built in Zhongshan, China. The
business area therefore remains on expansion course and is systematically continuing its long-term
strategy in Asia.
The construction of the 246 meter elevator test tower in Rottweil is virtually complete apart from
some work on the facade, test and research operation has already started. In June
2017 thyssenkrupp used the tower to unveil MULTI, the world’s first rope-free, sideways moving
elevator system. Featuring several cars moving vertically and for the first time also horizontally in
the same shaft, MULTI will open up completely new possibilities in terms of building height, design
and use. The system is a joint development of the business areas Elevator Technology,
Components Technology and Industrial Solutions, coordinated by Corporate Technology, Innovation
& Sustainability, and is just one example of how we use the combined strength of the Group for
innovations.
In May 2017 in the USA thyssenkrupp presented the industry’s first net-zero energy concept for the
operation of elevators which is also suitable for modernizing existing installations. The technology
uses new controllers which trigger ‘hibernation’ or ‘sleep’ modes in idle cabs, significantly reducing
energy requirements. This innovation will help make urban mobility greener and is a milestone for
the building industry.
thyssenkrupp Elevator also introduced the use of the HoloLens mixed-reality headset. As well as
speeding up maintenance work, the HoloLens permits digitization of the sales and ordering process
for stairlifts. That means customers will have significantly less time to wait for delivery of their
orders and what is more holographic visualization allows them to preview exactly what they are
buying.

59

+3%
Order intake and sales at new high.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Progress continues with the introduction of MAX – the first cloud-based predictive maintenance
solution for elevators. By July 2017, 100,000 elevators had already been fitted with the technology.
MAX is an intelligent, machine learning solution that uses the enormous potential of the Internet of
Things and by means of real-time diagnostics informs service technicians in advance when
components and systems need replacing. This significantly reduces elevator downtime, taking the
availability, reliability and efficiency of elevators to a whole new level.

Further earnings and margin improvement
In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year Elevator Technology increased its adjusted EBIT year-on-year by 7%
to €922 million as a result of higher sales and margins. The earnings and margin improvement
reflects above all the positive operating performance as well as the efficiency and restructuring
measures under the corporate program “impact”. Adjusted EBIT margin improved year-on-year by
0.5 percentage points to 12.0%. EBIT came to €736 million. It includes special items of
€185 million primarily due to restructuring measures in Europe and the Middle East.

Industrial Solutions
I N D U S T R I A L S O LU T I O N S I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

14

Orders in hand (Sept. 30)

million €

9,908

11,341

Order intake

million €

3,461

6,490

88

Net sales

million €

5,744

5,522

(4)

EBIT

million €

333

(36)

--

%

5.8

(0.7)

—

million €

355

111

(69)

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

6.2

2.0

—

19,602

21,777

11

The Industrial Solutions business area is a leading partner for the engineering, construction and
complete lifecycle service of industrial plants and systems. We supply tailored, turnkey plants and
plant components to customers from the chemical, fertilizer, cement, mining and steel industries.
As a system partner to the automotive industry and naval sector, we develop highly specialized
solutions to meet the individual requirements of our customers.

60

€922 million
Adjusted EBIT increased year-on-year
by 7% to €922 million.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Highest order intake in five years, sales down from prior year
In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year orders improved significantly: Industrial Solutions achieved its
highest order intake in five years and has a strong project pipeline. Alongside major orders for
chemical and cement plants as well as in the mining and naval sectors, we also booked numerous
small and mid-size orders for machinery, plant and services. These help us reduce workload
fluctuations in a continuing volatile market environment.

€6.5 billion
In the reporting year Industrial
Solutions achieved its highest order
intake in five years.

In the cement plant business the demand trend remained positive despite a volatile market
environment: We received several orders for new plants, including a major order from Algeria in the
1st quarter. On top of this we won numerous mid-size and small orders for plant expansions,
modernizations and individual machines, particularly from customers in North and South America,
the Middle East and Africa.
In the mining business we won a major order for ship loading and stockyard equipment in Canada
as well as numerous mid-size and small orders (including belt conveyor systems in Asia and South
America, bucket wheel excavators and a coal handling facility in Asia as well as a biomass power
plant in Australia) to achieve a clear year-on-year increase in order intake. While we are seeing a
market recovery in individual regions, overall investment in new equipment remains subdued. This
is one of the reasons we are continuously strengthening our service offering. With a growing share
of repair, service and individual machinery business, our portfolio of products and services
promises a stable business performance.
In chemical plant engineering order intake increased in the reporting year, boosted mainly by a
major fertilizer plant order for Brunei in the 4th quarter. Demand for electrolysis plants remained
positive, for example we won mid-size and small orders for facilities in Saudi Arabia, China and the
USA. While in the short term we are observing partial recoveries in isolated areas, in the medium
term we see clear growth opportunities for the entire chemical plant business.
The System Engineering business unit again increased its order intake in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year. This was mainly thanks to continued brisk demand for automated production systems for the
automobile industry, particularly from customers in Europe and Asia. For example we succeeded in
winning several major orders for body-in-white lines. Demand was also pleasing in the e-mobility
market; among other things we received a larger order for a battery assembly line from a leading
German OEM.
Marine Systems also recorded a clear increase in order intake in the reporting year. This reflected in
particular two major orders in the submarine and surface vessel business. Smaller maintenance
and service orders were received for example from Germany, Portugal and India. We were also
nominated as exclusive strategic partner for the Norwegian/German submarine program. Following
the full takeover of Atlas Elektronik we can now position ourselves as an end-to-end system
supplier to obtain strategic advantages in the global market for naval submarines and surface
vessels.
Sales in the Industrial Solutions business area were down year-on-year at €5.5 billion. Sales in
chemical plant construction and mining equipment declined as a result of lower order intake in the
prior year. This was not quite offset by the ramp-up of new cement plant orders, sustained growth
in sales at System Engineering, and a higher number of milestone billings at Marine Systems.

61

€1 billion
Order intake at System Engineering
again exceeded the €1 billion mark.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Earnings and margin down year-on-year – “planets” transformation program
systematically continued
Adjusted EBIT at €111 million was down clearly year-on-year. Adjusted EBIT margin fell to 2.0%.
This reflects among other things the difficult market environment in plant engineering,
characterized by growing volatility and mounting competitive pressure. Weak order intake in
previous years also weighed on adjusted EBIT in the reporting year. In addition we faced delays in
order intake in the chemical plant business which led to increased underutilization and together
with low earnings contributions from Marine Systems significantly impacted adjusted EBIT. This
was partly offset by positive effects from the full consolidation of Atlas Elektronik.
In the reporting year we systematically continued our “planets” transformation program, launched
in 2015 / 2016. The aim is to safeguard our growth and performance over the long term and focus
more firmly on customers, markets and the high-margin service business. In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year we drove forward the organizational restructuring of Industrial Solutions. To further strengthen
our competitiveness on a sustainable basis we also stepped up the consolidation and optimization
of structures and processes. In this connection up to 500 jobs in the administrative area and up to
1,500 jobs in operating areas are to be reduced over the next three years with the help of socially
responsible models. Altogether the planned measures are aimed at strengthening the business
area’s earning power by up to €200 million in each of the next three years.

Materials Services
M AT E R I A L S SE R VI C E S I N FI G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Order intake

million €

11,840

13,760

16

Net sales

million €

11,886

13,665

15

EBIT

million €

76

220

190

%

0.6

1.6

—

million €

128

312

143

1.1

2.3

—

19,754

19,861

1

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

With around 480 branches in 40 countries, the Materials Services business area is focused on
global materials distribution. The service portfolio covers a wide range of custom services – from
materials advice and procurement to quality management and logistics services to individual
supply chain solutions. We also perform technical and infrastructure services for the manufacturing
sector. The cornerstones of our business are our deep understanding of the market, our
international setup and our engaged and motivated employees.

62

With “planets” Industrial Solutions is
focusing more firmly on customers,
markets and the high-margin service
business.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Orders and sales up year-on-year mainly due to higher prices
The reporting year – particularly the 1st half of the fiscal year – was characterized by rising prices
for almost all materials. Accordingly order intake and sales were clearly higher year-on-year (up 16%
and 15%, respectively). Almost all the business area’s units contributed to this: Materials Services
recorded stable warehouse and service business and a clear year-on-year increase in sales of our
service centers for the auto industry, particularly thanks to our new service centers in Hungary and
Spain. Also in global materials trading and at AST, growth mainly reflected higher prices.
Sales volumes showed a mixed picture in the individual units of Materials Services. Altogether
11.0 million tons of materials was sold, compared with 12.6 million tons a year earlier; this
included 0.9 million tons of flat-rolled stainless steel products from AST (prior year: 0.9 million
tons). Sales of metals in the warehousing and service business were 3% higher year-on-year at
5.7 million tons. Our global direct-to-customer and trading business recorded sales of 3.5 million
tons (prior year: 3.4 million tons). We sold 1.2 million tons of raw materials, around 1.8 million tons
less than a year earlier (prior year: 3 million tons). However, this decrease is almost entirely due to
our stronger focus on higher-value, higher-margin products; we clearly reduced bulk sales of nickel
ore.

Digitization as an element of customer focus and efficiency enhancement
In our business, customer focus and strong reliability are key success factors. Accordingly, creating
added value for our customers is central to our brand promise and our initiatives. One example is
the ongoing digitization of our business processes and distribution channels, based on
sophisticated warehousing, logistics and IT systems: Today we already operate online portals to
supply our customers and end users with information and materials.
An important milestone in the digital transformation of the Materials Services business area was
the start of the roll-out of “toii”. “toii” is a platform developed in-house for the Industrial Internet of
Things (IIoT), which allows machines of different make and age to communicate with each other.
The advantages are that maintenance requirements can be estimated in advance (predictive
maintenance) and processes can be optimally harmonized in real time.

Adjusted EBIT higher year-on-year
On account of the very positive price trend, particularly in the 1st half, Materials Services’ adjusted
EBIT was clearly higher year-on-year; this was also supported by continued earnings and
performance improvement measures in all units. Materials Services additionally profited from land
and real estate sales in Germany. The Italian stainless steel plant AST again delivered a positive
earnings contribution. The turnaround at AST impressively documents the sustainable effect of the
ongoing performance improvements.

63

€312 million
Adjusted EBIT more than doubled to
€312 million.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Steel Europe
S T E E L E U R O PE I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Order intake

million €

8,146

8,969

10

Net sales

million €

7,633

8,915

17

EBIT

million €

316

493

56

%

4.1

5.5

—

million €

315

547

74

%

4.1

6.1

—

27,559

27,646

0

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

The Steel Europe business area combines the Group’s flat carbon steel operations, focused mainly
on the European market. Its high-quality flat products are supplied to customers in the auto
industry and other steel-using sectors requiring products and services that meet their high
demands. Our particular strength is our ability to develop custom solutions. We do this on the basis
of our profound knowledge of the business and therefore the needs of our customers, our technical
know-how gained through years of experience – and not least our ability to use the advantages of
being part of a strong group, from which our customers also profit. Alongside working with
customers, continuous quality management and extensive process improvement initiatives are
integral parts of our work.

Business expanded in a difficult environment
Despite the continuing difficult market and competitive environment the Steel Europe business area
expanded its business volume in the reporting year – above all thanks to higher average net selling
prices. Order intake and sales significantly exceeded the corresponding prior-year figures. As our
contract business is mainly long-term, we profited with a time lag from the higher spot market
prices in calendar year 2016 and in the first quarter of 2017, which were mainly the result of
increased raw material prices.
In terms of value the order intake of the Steel Europe business area increased by 10% to around
€9.0 billion. The unusually strong uptrend in European spot market prices, above all in calendar
year 2016, was reflected in our new contracts from January 2017. As a result, average selling
prices for the full year were significantly higher than a year earlier. Order volumes, however, were
around 5% lower at 11.3 million tons. In the first fiscal half that was due less to weak demand than
to capacity losses caused by maintenance work, in particular the reline of blast furnace B (HKM).
Demand improved strongly in the final fiscal quarter, also due to a recovery in spot market prices
after a temporary dip, with the result that order intake in tons was significantly higher than in the
corresponding prior-year period.

64

Our particular strength is our ability to
develop custom solutions.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Sales increased by 17% to €8.9 billion, mainly reflecting the higher prices achieved from the 2nd
fiscal quarter. Shipments increased by on average 2% to 11.4 million tons. Shipments to the
automotive industry increased at an above average rate and we also recorded a stronger increase
for packaging steel and deliveries to cold rerollers, the pipe industry and machine manufacturers.
However shipments of heavy plate declined noticeably due to market and production reasons. This
was only partially offset by higher prices, with the result that sales decreased slightly. Sales of
grain-oriented material by the Electrical Steel unit were also lower year-on-year, mainly due to
increased price pressure in a market still characterized by significant overcapacities; shipments
were up slightly from the prior year.
At almost 12.1 million tons, crude steel production including supplies from HKM was level with the
prior year. To support starting material supplies, which were temporarily tight due to the reline of
blast furnace B at HKM, we purchased 778,000 tons of slabs from the since sold Brazilian plant
CSA and a further 87,000 tons from other producers. Rolled steel production for customers
increased by 6% from a very low prior-year level to 11.8 million tons. However, a temporary
shortage of starting material, planned maintenance work and disruptions temporarily impeded
production, particularly in the hot strip mills. This also affected downstream production operations.

EBIT significantly higher
The Steel Europe business area significantly improved its earnings year-on-year. As well as
moderate volume growth this was mainly due to the higher average net selling prices we were able
to achieve from the second fiscal quarter, as well as earnings-securing measures and further
implementation of the improvements developed under the “impact” performance program.
Earnings were weighed down by significantly higher raw material costs and particularly by the blast
furnace reline at HKM.

Steel Americas (discontinued operation)
S T E E L A ME R I C A S I N F I G U R E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

2016 / 20171)

Change in %

Order intake

million €

1,525

1,874

23

Net sales

million €

1,489

1,848

24

EBIT

million €

(22)

(444)

--

%

(1.5)

(24.0)

—

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)
1)

mi llion €

(33)

186

++

%

(2.2)

10.1

—

3,847

0

--

11 months

65

11.4 mt
Shipments increased to 11.4 million
tons.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

From its steel mill in Brazil (CSA) the Steel Americas business area supplied in particular the US
and Brazilian markets with high-quality slabs. After having sold the processing plant in the USA in
2014, thyssenkrupp sold CSA in September 2017 and exited completely from Steel Americas,
achieving a further important milestone on the Strategic Way Forward.

thyssenkrupp sold CSA in September
2017 and exited completely from Steel
Americas.

Order intake and sales higher year-on-year due to higher prices
Order intake and sales of the Steel Americas business area were significantly higher year-on-year
due to higher prices, while shipments were lower (3.9 million tons; down 11%) as a result of the
sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA.

Adjusted EBIT higher
Steel Americas achieved a significant year-on-year earnings improvement, mainly driven by the
positive price trend and cost- reduction measures under the corporate program “impact”, partly
offset by lower shipments and negative effects caused by a stronger Brazilian real.
Major special items in the reporting year were attributable to the impairment charge resulting from
the sale of CSA to Ternium.

Corporate at thyssenkrupp AG
The Group is managed centrally by thyssenkrupp AG. To further improve control structures and in
the interests of more transparent presentation, as of the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year Corporate is
divided into Corporate Headquarters (CorpHQ), Regions, Service Units and Special Units.
CorpHQ mainly comprises the corporate functions. It also includes the management of the
Groupwide transformation programs for the standardization of the IT infrastructure, data and
process harmonization, and the harmonization of HR processes.
The Regions include our regional headquarters (“RHQs”) in North and South America, Greater
China, India, the Asia/Pacific region, and the Middle East & Africa region, as well as the regional
offices and Group representative offices.
The Service Units mainly include Global Shared Services, Regional Services Germany and
Corporate Services.
The Special Units include asset management for the Group’s real estate, cross-business area
technology projects as well as non-operating entities needed for example for Group financing.
Adjusted EBIT at Corporate was €(535) million in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year, €38 million down
from the year before. General and administrative costs were stable overall; changes versus
the prior year were the result of project expenses in connection with our digital initiatives for
the standardization of the IT infrastructure and data and process harmonization. EBIT was
€(569) million and included special items of altogether €35 million.

66

thyssenkrupp AG manages the Group
centrally.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Results of operations and financial position
Analysis of the statement of income
Net sales from continuing operations were up significantly year-on-year in fiscal 2016 / 2017, with
contributions from both the materials businesses and overall the capital goods businesses. Cost of
sales from continuing operations increased at a slightly higher rate than sales. Gross margin was
unchanged at 17%.

17%
Gross margin was unchanged at 17%.

The increase in selling expenses from continuing operations was mainly due to higher freight expense
and higher impairment losses on trade accounts receivable. The rise in general and administrative
expenses from continuing operations mainly reflected higher personnel expenses, also as a result
of increased restructuring provisions, as well as higher consultancy and IT costs. The increase in
other expenses from continuing operations was mainly due to higher non-income taxes.
Finance income from continuing operations was down, mainly reflecting lower exchange rate gains
in connection with finance transactions, while income from derivatives in connection with financing
was higher. The net reduction in finance expenses was mainly due to lower currency losses from
finance transactions and declining interest expense for financial debt and pensions; this was partly
offset in particular by higher expense from derivatives in connection with financing.
Tax expense from continuing operations was impacted by impairment losses and non-period tax
income. After taking into account income taxes, income from continuing operations was down yearon-year to €271 million.
The high loss from discontinued operations (after taxes) was mainly due to impairment losses in
connection with the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA to Ternium; this was partly offset by the gain
(after taxes) from the disposal of the discontinued operations. The earnings situation at the
discontinued operations resulted in a net loss in the reporting year. The improvement in noncontrolling interest was mainly due to the acquisition of Vale’s minority interest in thyssenkrupp
CSA in the 3rd quarter of the prior year. As a result of the net loss, earnings per share decreased to
a loss of €1.15.

67

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Consolidated statement of income

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

million €, earnings per share in €

Net sales
Cost of sales
Gross margin
Research and development cost

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

38,000

41,447

(31,421)

(34,487)

6,579

6,960

(373)

(383)

Selling expenses

(2,817)

(2,958)

General and administrative expenses

(2,346)

(2,602)

Other income

213

278

Other expenses

(97)

(167)

Other gains/(losses), net
Income/(loss) from operations
Income from companies accounted for using the equity method
Finance income
Finance expense
Financial income/(expense), net
Income/(loss) from continuing operations before tax
Income tax (expense)/income

22

29

1,179

1,156

46

15

916

776

(1,449)

(1,181)

(488)

(391)

691

765

(334)

(495)

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)

357

271

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)

(96)

(861)

Net income/(loss)

261

(591)

thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders

296

(649)

Non-controlling interest

(35)

59

261

(591)

Thereof:

Net income/(loss)
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on
Income/(loss) from continuing operations (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s
shareholders)
Net income/(loss) (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG's shareholders)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
1) Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

68

0.55

0.37

0.52

(1.15)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Analysis of the statement of financial position
Total assets were almost unchanged from September 30, 2016.
The sharp decrease in non-current assets mainly reflected declines in property, plant and
equipment and other non-financial assets following the deconsolidation of Steel Americas as well
as lower deferred taxes, resulting in particular from the use of tax loss carryforwards, a decrease in
pension provisions and a partial impairment loss. Intangible assets were higher mainly due to the
recognition of provisional goodwill from the first-time consolidation of Atlas Elektronik as well as the
acquired intangible assets identified in connection with the not yet finalized purchase price
allocation. The first-time consolidation of Atlas Elektronik was also the main cause of the decline in
equity-method investments.
The significant increase in current assets mainly reflected increases in inventories of the continuing
materials businesses as well as higher trade accounts receivable in plant engineering. The
additional strong rise in cash and cash equivalents resulted mainly from the capital increase carried
out in September 2017 and the clearly positive free cash flow from continuing operations in the
reporting year; this was partly offset by financing of the discontinued operations, the repayment of
financial debt and dividend payments. The reduction in other non-financial assets was mainly due
to lower advance payments as well as lower entitlements in connection with non-income taxes as a
result of the deconsolidation of Steel Americas.
Total equity at September 30, 2017 was higher year-on-year at €3,404 million. This was mainly due
to the aforementioned capital increase and the gains (after taxes) recognized in other comprehensive
income from the remeasurement of pensions and similar obligations as a result of the higher discount
rate. This was partly offset by the net loss for the reporting year, the currency translation losses
recognized in other comprehensive income and dividend payments. The equity ratio improved
overall to 9.7%.
The sharp decrease in non-current liabilities was mainly due to lower provisions for pensions and
similar obligations as a result of the aforementioned remeasurement of pensions. The additional net
reduction in non-current financial debt mainly reflected the reclassification to current financial debt
of a bond due in August 2018 with a total volume of €1,600 million as well as lower payables to
financial institutions; this was partly offset by the issuing of a bond with a total volume of
€1,250 million in March 2017.
The increase in current liabilities mainly reflected higher trade accounts payable at the continuing
materials businesses. The increase in other provisions was due above all to initiated restructuring
measures. Current financial debt was also higher; the increase from the aforementioned
reclassification from non-current financial debt was partly offset by the repayment of a
€1,250 million bond in February 2017. This was partly offset by the decrease in non-financial
liabilities, mainly due to lower liabilities in connection with construction contracts.

69

€3,404 million
Total equity increased from
€2,609 million to €3,404 million.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Consolidated statement of financial position
ASSETS
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Intangible assets

4,570

4,813

Property, plant and equipment (inclusive of investment property)

8,938

7,605

284

154

Investments accounted for using the equity method
Other financial assets
Other non-financial assets
Deferred tax assets

44

43

445

207

2,322

1,680

16,604

14,502

Inventories

6,341

6,957

Trade accounts receivable

5,003

5,734

Total non-current assets

Other financial assets
Other non-financial assets
Current income tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

407

420

2,376

1,923

172

220

4,105

5,292

65

0

Total current assets

18,468

20,546

Total assets

35,072

35,048

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Capital stock

1,449

1,594

Additional paid-in capital

5,434

6,664

(5,255)

(5,401)

Retained earnings
Cumulative other comprehensive income
Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Non-controlling interest

474

33

2,102

2,890

507

515

Total equity

2,609

3,404

Accrued pension and similar obligations

8,754

7,924

Provisions for other employee benefits

373

354

Other provisions

589

645

Deferred tax liabilities
Financial debt
Other financial liabilities

33

111

6,157

5,326

221

182

Other non-financial liabilities

6

5

Total non-current liabilities

16,134

14,546

Provisions for current employee benefits

408

357

Other provisions

963

1,183

Current income tax liabilities

279

254

Financial debt

1,455

1,930

Trade accounts payable

5,119

5,729

Other financial liabilities

975

842

7,130

6,802

Total current liabilities

16,329

17,097

Total liabilities

32,463

31,643

Total equity and liabilities

35,072

35,048

Other non-financial liabilities

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

70

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Financing
Principles and aims of financial management
The financing of the Group is handled centrally by thyssenkrupp AG. It is based on a multi-year
financial planning system and a monthly rolling liquidity planning system covering a planning
period of up to a year. The cash inflows from our operating activities are our main source of
liquidity. Our cash management systems allow Group companies to use surplus funds of other
units to cover their liquidity requirements. This reduces the volume of external financing and thus
interest expense. External financing requirements are covered using money and capital market
instruments such as bonds, loan notes or commercial papers. We also make use of committed
credit facilities in various currencies and with various terms, as well as selected off-balance
financing instruments such as factoring programs and operating leases. Information on the
available credit facilities is provided in Note 16.
The aim of our central financing system is to strengthen our negotiating position vis-à-vis banks
and other market players and to raise or invest capital on the best possible terms and conditions.

Net financial debt and available liquidity
Net financial debt is calculated as the difference between cash and cash equivalents shown in the
statement of financial position plus current other financial assets available for sale, and noncurrent
and current financial debt. The corresponding assets and liabilities of the disposal groups – where
applicable – are also taken into account.
The net financial debt of the full Group at September 30, 2017 stood at €1,957 million, lower than
the level at September 30, 2016 (€3,500 million). Taking into account cash, cash equivalents,
committed undrawn credit lines and the balanced maturity structure, thyssenkrupp is solidly
financed.
At September 30, 2017 the Group’s available liquidity came to €9.1 billion, consisting of
€5.3 billion cash and cash equivalents and €3.8 billion committed undrawn credit lines. Additional
financing possibilities were available to us under a commercial paper program with a limit of
€1.5 billion. Under the program commercial papers can be issued with a term of up to 364 days
depending on investor demand. At September 30, 2017 we had not made use of the program.
The available liquidity offers enough scope to cover debt maturities. The gross financial debt
repayable in the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year amounts to €1.9 billion.
The financing and liquidity of the Group were secured at all times in the reporting year.

71

€9.1 billion
The Group’s available liquidity came to
€9.1 billion.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

thyssenkrupp AG has agreements with banks which contain certain conditions in the event that the
gearing ratio (net financial debt to equity) in the consolidated financial statements exceeds an
applicable limit at the closing date (September 30). The applicable limit lies in a range from 150%
to 200% and depends on the discount rate used to calculate thyssenkrupp’s pension obligations in
Germany. At September 30, 2017 the applicable gearing limit for thyssenkrupp AG based on these
agreements was 155%.
At the balance sheet date the gearing ratio was 57.5% and therefore below the agreed limit.

Financing measures
Bond issued – In March 2017 thyssenkrupp AG issued a bond with a volume of €1,250 million, a
maturity of five years and a coupon of 1.375% p.a. under its €10 billion debt issuance program.
With the transaction we made use of the good market environment; as a result we were able to
extend the maturity profile of our financial debt and strengthen the capital market share in our
financing mix.
Capital increase – In September 2017 thyssenkrupp AG decided to increase the capital stock

of the company, under exclusion of shareholder subscription rights, by a nominal
€144,880,112.64, i.e. 10% of the capital stock, by issuing 56,593,794 new shares. The shares
were placed in an accelerated bookbuilding process at a price of €24.30 per share. The placement
resulted in net proceeds of around €1.4 billion, which will be used in particular to support organic
growth in the capital goods businesses in the key areas of urbanization, mobility and service, while
at the same time driving forward necessary restructuring initiatives.

Rating
We have been rated by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s since 2001 and by Fitch since 2003. Our
ratings are currently below investment grade. In September 2017 following the signing of the
memorandum of understanding between thyssenkrupp and Tata Steel to combine their European
steel operations in a 50/50 joint venture, all the rating agencies adjusted their previous stable
outlook. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch changed the outlook for their current respective BB and BB+
ratings from “stable” to “watch positive”, while Moody’s changed the outlook of its current Ba2
rating from “stable” to “developing”. Whereas the “watch positive” outlook from Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch raises expectations of a positive change in rating, the outlook “developing” from Moody’s
does not specify the direction of a possible rating change. In general the current outlook of our
ratings indicates that the rating agencies will monitor the rating more closely and normally review it
in the short to medium term. Key to decisions on our rating will be the further structuring of the
joint venture and greater clarity on the implications for thyssenkrupp.

72

57.5 %
The gearing ratio was 57.5%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

R AT I N G
Long-term rating

Short-term rating

Outlook

BB

B

watch positive

Moody's

Ba2

Not Prime

developing

Fitch

BB+

B

watch positive

Standard & Poor's

Analysis of the statement of cash flows
The amounts taken into account in the statement of cash flows correspond to the item “Cash and
cash equivalents” as reported in the statement of financial position.

Operating cash flows
In the reporting year net cash inflow from operating activities was lower than a year earlier. This was
mainly due to a significant net increase in operating assets and liabilities.

Cash flows from investing activities
Capital spending of the Group and the continuing operations in the reporting year was higher than
a year earlier. The share of the capital goods businesses in the continuing operations was 51%.
There were forward-looking projects in connection with digitization, modernization of IT and
harmonization of the systems landscape at all business areas and Corporate to enhance efficiency,
lower costs and as a basis for Industry 4.0.

I N V E S T M E N T S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Components Technology

488

551

13

Elevator Technology

135

144

6

million €

Industrial Solutions

75

82

9

Materials Services

137

132

(4)

Steel Europe

400

566

41

Corporate

45

58

29

Consolidation

(5)

3

—

1,277

1,535

20

110

131

19

0

0

—

1,387

1,666

20

Investments of the continuing operations
Steel Americas
Consolidation
Total investments

Components Technology – Investments in the Chassis business focused mainly on existing facilities

and the construction of additional production capacities for electric steering systems, in particular
in China, Mexico and Hungary. In the business with active and passive damping systems the focus
was on the construction of the new plant in Mexico and expansion in Romania. Two new highly
automated plants are being built in Hungary and China to produce springs and stabilizers. In the
Powertrain business we continued to expand capacities for cylinder head modules in China, Europe
and Mexico. The focus in the Industrial Components business was on rationalization/modernization
with selective investments in growth segments, e.g. rotor bearings.

73

Capital spending was significantly
higher than a year earlier.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Elevator Technology – Capital expenditures at Elevator Technology came to €144 million in the
reporting year. We are in the process of implementing an extensive innovation and growth strategy,
under which we continued to invest in innovative products such as MAX and MULTI and in the
international expansion of the service network and our production facilities. Details of the strategy
are presented in the section “Business area review”.
Industrial Solutions – To strengthen our market position in the Mining and Cement businesses we

invested further in infrastructure and the expansion of our technology portfolio. In our chemical
plant construction business we opened a new technology center for oleochemical products in
Thailand. The aim is to further strengthen our presence in the Asia-Pacific region and develop a
promising new growth market. Further funds were invested in technologies for the storage of
renewable energies. System Engineering invested in growth and further internationalization in its
forming dies business and in the construction of a new body-in-white components plant for a new
electric car model. The focus at Marine Systems was on the continuing modernization of its Kiel
shipyard, with investments in particular in infrastructure measures and IT. In early April we also
completed the acquisition of the 49% interest in Atlas Elektronik previously held by Airbus to
strengthen our competitive position.
Materials Services – In the past fiscal year Materials Services invested mainly in the expansion and

modernization of warehousing and service activities worldwide and the continuing digital transformation of the business area. Further spending related to modernization and maintenance at AST.
Steel Europe – A large part of the investments went into the relining of blast furnace B at HKM,

which was successfully restarted in the 2nd quarter. Work also started on the construction of a new
ladle furnace at BOF meltshop 2 in Duisburg. This new furnace will make it possible to produce
particularly high-quality grades – and thus help further focus our portfolio on premium products,
above all high-strength steels for the automotive industry. We also acquired a combined heat and
power plant in Duisburg-Hamborn which we had previously leased. Substantial amounts were once
again spent on modernizing the IT infrastructure. Steel Europe also invests continuously in the
maintenance of its plants and further improving environmental protection.
Corporate – Key areas at Corporate were forward-looking projects in connection with digitization and

the Group’s property investments which – irrespective of business area – are consolidated in the
Asset Management unit. A current example is the test and development tower for elevators in
Rottweil for the Elevator Technology business area. There were also investments in technology
development in the reporting year. Two major projects –Carbon2Chem and Additive Manufacturing
– were launched. Under the Carbon2Chem project a research and development center for the
utilization of steel mill gases is being built on the site of thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG in Duisburg.
Additive manufacturing allows 3D objects to be built up layer by layer to form innovative parts.
There was also further spending on IT, for example for standardizing the IT infrastructure, data and
process harmonization and the central purchase of software licenses.

74

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Steel Americas – Capital expenditures at Steel Americas (discontinued operation) included

investment in the insourcing of water and waste water treatment services through the acquisition of
two Brazilian companies as well as measures for environmental protection and technical
optimization.
Cash flows from investing activities from continuing operations in the reporting year were almost
break-even despite the year-on-year increase in capital expenditure. This was mainly due to cash
inflows from the sale of Steel Americas to Ternium.

Free cash flow
R E CO N C I LI ATI O N TO F R E E C A S H F L O W B E F O R E M & A
million €

Operating cash flows - continuing operations
(consolidated statement of cash flows)
Cash flows from investing activities - continuing operations
(consolidated statement of cash flows)
Free cash flow - continuing operations (FCF)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change

1,310

483

(827)

(1,088)

4

1,092

222

487

265

–/+ Cash inflow/cash outflow resulting from
material M&A transactions

6

(1,342)

(1,348)

Free cash flow before M&A – continuing operations
(FCF before M&A)

228

(855)

(1,083)

Steel Americas

(31)

57

87

Free cash flow before M&A - Group (FCF before M&A)

198

(798)

(996)

In the reporting year our continuing operations once again generated positive free cash flow, which
was higher year-on-year in particular due to the disposal of Steel Americas. Free cash flow before
M & A, i.e. operating cash flows excluding cash inflows or outflows from major portfolio measures,
was down significantly from the prior year. This is mainly attributable to a significant increase in net
working capital at our materials businesses due to dislocations on the raw materials markets, the
payment profile at Industrial Solutions, as well as growth and the start-up of new plants at
Components Technology in the first 9 months. Strong positive free cash flow before M & A with
positive business cash flow contributions from all business areas in the final quarter were not
enough to offset this decline.

Cash flows from financing activities
Financing activities in the reporting year resulted in a significant net cash inflow. This was mainly
due to income in connection with the capital increase at thyssenkrupp AG in September 2017. It
was partly offset by expenditure for the financing of the discontinued operations, the repayment of
financial debts and dividend payments.

75

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

CO N S O L I DATE D S TATE ME NT O F C A S H F L OW S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

261

(591)

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)

96

861

Deferred income taxes, net

32

241

1,116

1,109

(8)

(1)

million €

Net income/(loss)
Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to operating cash flows:

Depreciation, amortization and impairment of non-current assets
Reversals of impairment losses of non-current assets
Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method, net of
dividends received

(46)

(15)

(Gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets

(23)

(34)

591

(924)

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures
and other non-cash changes
– Inventories
– Trade accounts receivable

87

(767)

(119)

(143)

– Other provisions

(54)

143

– Trade accounts payable

105

919

(728)

(315)

1,310

483

– Accrued pension and similar obligations

– Other assets/liabilities not related to investing or financing activities
Operating cash flows – continuing operations
Operating cash flows – discontinued operations
Operating cash flows – total
Purchase of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current
financial assets
Expenditures for acquisitions of consolidated companies net of cash acquired
Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (inclusive of advance
payments) and investment property
Capital expenditures for intangible assets (inclusive of advance payments)

77

127

1,387

610

(8)

(4)

(17)

4

(1,106)

(1,368)

(146)

(167)

Proceeds from disposals of investments accounted for using the equity method and
non-current financial assets

1

5

Proceeds from disposals of previously consolidated companies net of cash disposed

9

1,418

178

117

Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and investment property
Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations
Cash flows from investing activities – total

76

2

0

(1,088)

4

(107)

(125)

(1,196)

(121)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

CO N S O L I DATE D S TATE ME NT O F C A S H F L OW S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

million €

Proceeds from issuance of bonds
Repayments of bonds

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

850

1,250

(1,000)

(1,250)

Proceeds from liabilities to financial institutions

892

3,575

Repayments of liabilities to financial institutions

(997)

(3,742)

Proceeds from/(repayments on) loan notes and other loans

(142)

6

Increase/(decrease) in bills of exchange
Payment of thyssenkrupp AG dividend
Proceeds from capital increase
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest
Expenditures for acquisitions of shares of already consolidated companies
Financing of discontinued operations

9
(85)

0

1,375

(35)

(37)

(6)

(1)

(162)

(219)

3

(14)

Other financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations

(4)
(85)

(685)

866

27

(82)

Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations
Cash flows from financing activities – total

(658)

784

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – total

(467)

1,273

37

(86)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – total
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – total

4,535

4,105

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – total

4,105

5,292

[95]

[0]

[thereof cash and cash equivalents within the discontinued operations]

Additional information regarding cash flows from interest, dividends and income
taxes which are included in operating cash flows of continuing operations:
Interest received
Interest paid

87

60

(402)

(321)

Dividends received

61

38

Income taxes paid

(322)

(341)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
1) Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

Assets not recognized and off-balance financing instruments
In addition to the assets recognized on the balance sheet, the Group also uses non-recognized
assets. These are mainly leased or rented assets (operating leases). More details on this can be
found under Note 20. Our off-balance financing instruments also include factoring programs. More
details can be found under Note 09. Should financing instruments of this kind no longer be
available in the future, we have adequate available credit lines. This also applies to the nonrecourse factoring of receivables, which the Group sold in connection with ordinary business
activities in the amount of €1.6 billion at the closing date (prior year: €1.6 billion).

77

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Annual financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG
thyssenkrupp AG is the parent company of the thyssenkrupp Group. The Executive Board of
thyssenkrupp AG is responsible for the management of the Company and the Group. This includes
above all defining corporate strategy and allocating resources as well as executive development
and financial management. The annual financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG were prepared
according to the rules of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG); the management report is combined with the management report on the Group. As the
German Accounting Directive Implementation Act (BilRUG) was applied for the first time in the
financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2017, the structure of the statement of
income was adjusted in accordance with the new regulations. The parent-company financial
statements are used to calculate unappropriated income and thus the amount of the possible
dividend payment.

Course of business, future development and risk position
Course of business 2016 / 2017
The business performance and position of thyssenkrupp AG is mainly determined by the business
performance and success of the Group. We report on this in detail in the sections “Group review”,
“Business area review”, and “Results of operations and financial position”.

Expected development 2017 / 2018 with material opportunities and risks
The expected development of thyssenkrupp AG in the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year also depends mainly
on the development of the Group as a whole and its opportunity and risk position. This is the
subject of the forecast, opportunity and risk report of the Group. To this extent the information
provided there on the expected development and risk position of the Group also applies to the
future development and risk position of thyssenkrupp AG.
As parent company of the Group, thyssenkrupp AG receives income in particular from its equity
investments. Net income from investments comprises profits and losses transferred from domestic
subsidiaries and dividends distributed particularly by foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, the positive
expectations for the Group’s business performance in 2017 / 2018 should also be reflected in the
income of thyssenkrupp AG. Overall we expect an unappropriated profit at thyssenkrupp AG in
2017 / 2018 that will allow our shareholders to share appropriately in the earnings of the Group.

Results of operations
thyssenkrupp AG reported net income of €59 million in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year, compared with
net income of €161 million a year earlier.
Due to the first-time application of the German Accounting Directive Implementation Act (BilRUG)
certain items previously reported under other operating income are now included in net sales in
accordance with § 277 (1) HGB. This is mainly income from amounts charged on in accordance
with the corporate design, company naming and trademark policy for the corporate mark
(€299 million), usage fees for Group licenses (€51 million), and income from insurance services
(€68 million).
Compared with a year earlier, general administrative expenses decreased by €23 million to
€644 million. Due to the first-time application of BilRUG, some of the general administrative
expenses in fiscal 2016 / 2017 are now reported under cost of sales. In addition expenses for IT

78

As the Accounting Directive
Implementation Act was applied for
the first time for the financial
statements, the structure of the
statement of income was adjusted in
accordance with the new regulations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

consultancy decreased by €26 million and salary expenses by €19 million. Expenses for postretirement benefits increased by €21 million, in particular due to higher allocations to pension
provisions compared with a year earlier.
The €335 million decrease in other operating income resulted primarily from the reclassification in
accordance with BilRUG. Other operating income mainly includes a €78 million write-up on shares
in affiliated companies and income of €22 million from the sale of non-operating real estate.
Other operating expenses increased year-on-year by €339 million to €459 million. This mainly
reflects currency translation differences of €301 million in connection with the sale of thyssenkrupp
Companhia Siderúrgica do Atlantico Ltda. In accordance with the hedging strategy, this transaction
does not impact income at Group level due to offsetting effects at other Group companies. Other
operating expenses also include internal waivers of receivables in the amount of €78 million.
Income from investments was €118 million higher at €973 million.
Income from profit and loss transfer agreements was down by €510 million to €184 million. In addition,
expenses from loss transfers increased by €32 million to €116 million. thyssenkrupp Technologies
Beteiligungen GmbH’s earnings were €220 million lower at €20 million. After positive earnings of
€60 million in the prior year, thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH reported a loss of €88 million.
Thyssen Stahl GmbH decreased its profit transfer by €171 million to €152 million.
In addition, a total of €906 million income from investments resulted in particular from dividend
payments of thyssenkrupp North America, Inc. and thyssenkrupp (China) Ltd.
In the course of fiscal 2016 / 2017 there were €51 million write-downs on financial assets relating to
the shares of thyssenkrupp Italia S.r.l.
Income taxes include income from previous years as well as taxes in the reporting period. Under a
recognition option for an excess of deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities, deferred taxes
are not included in tax expense.
After income taxes, net income was €59 million (prior year: €161 million).

Financial position
Total assets increased year-on-year by €6 million to €37,370 million. At September 30, 2017 fixed
assets as a percentage of total assets were 5 percentage points higher than a year earlier at 74%.

79

€59 million
Net income came to €59 million.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Fixed assets increased by €2,110 million to €27,708 million. Shares in affiliated companies were
€2,240 million higher at €24,350 million. The additions were mainly due to capital increases at
thyssenkrupp Nederland Holding B.V. of altogether €2,195 million. The €8 million reductions were
the result of mergers. A €51 million impairment charge was taken on the shares of thyssenkrupp
Italia S.r.l. The shares in thyssenkrupp Regional Services Germany GmbH were written up by
€78 million.
Receivables and liabilities from/to affiliated companies are significant items in the balance sheet of
thyssenkrupp AG. They reflect the central importance of thyssenkrupp AG in the Group’s cash
management system.
At September 30, 2017 receivables from affiliated companies were down by €3,552 million from
the prior year to €5,416 million. This is mainly due to a €3,040 million reduction in intercompany
account balances.
thyssenkrupp AG bears liability from the internal transfer of pension obligations. The
indemnification right created by transfer of responsibility for meeting the obligations recognized
under miscellaneous assets decreased by €31 million in the past fiscal year to €315 million. This
was recognized under pension obligations accordingly.
At September 30, 2017 cash in hand and cash at banks was €1,499 million higher at
€3,843 million.
Total equity increased by €1,349 million to €7,192 million at September 30, 2017. This change
reflected among other things the capital increase effective September 26, 2017, as a result of which
the capital stock increased by €145 million to €1,594 million and additional paid-in capital by
€1,230 million to €2,703 million. In addition the €85 million dividend payment and €59 million net
income have to be taken into account. The equity ratio therefore rose to 19% (prior year: 16%).

19%
The equity ratio rose to 19%.

The €14 million reduction in pension provisions was mainly due to payments (€54 million) and the
change in the aforementioned internally transferred pension obligations (€31 million). This was partly
offset by the €41 million additions and the €30 million accrued interest. In other provisions, the
provision for share-based compensation decreased by €9 million and the provision for outstanding
invoices by €9 million.
In March 2017 a €1,250 million bond was issued under the €10 billion debt issuance program with
a maturity of five years and a coupon of 1.375% p.a. Liabilities to affiliated companies are mainly
deposits by subsidiaries in the Group’s central financial clearing system. Liabilities to affiliated
companies were €1,239 million lower year-on-year at €21,780 million. This was mainly due to a
€1,254 million reduction in intercompany liabilities. More information on the financial position of
thyssenkrupp AG is contained in the Notes to the parent-company financial statements.

80

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Unappropriated income and proposal for the appropriation of net income
The legal basis for the distribution of a dividend is the unappropriated income of thyssenkrupp AG
calculated in accordance with HGB. The annual financial statements show unappropriated income
of €1,401 million. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board propose to the Annual General
Meeting that the unappropriated income for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year in the amount of
€1,401 million be used as follows: Distribution of a dividend of €0.15 per eligible share and the
remaining amount to be carried forward.

Statement of financial position of thyssenkrupp AG
ASSETS
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial assets

54

73

341

328

25,203

27,307

25,598

27,708

Operating assets
Receivables and other assets

9,375

5,773

Cash on hand and cash at banks

2,345

3,844

11,720

9,617

Prepaid expenses and deferred charges

46

45

37,364

37,370

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Capital stock

1,449

1,594

Additional paid-in capital

1,473

2,703

Other retained earnings

1,494

1,494

Unappropriated income

1,427

1,401

5,843

7,192

1,107

1,093

Total assets

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S
million €

Total equity

Provisions
Accrued pension and similar obligations
Other provisions

240

193

1,347

1,286

6,300

6,300

Liabilities
Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutes
Liabilities to affiliated companies
Other liabilities
Deferred income
Total equity and liabilities

81

375

347

23,019

21,780

477

462

30,171

28,889

3

3

37,364

37,370

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

S TAT E M E N T O F I N CO ME
million €

2015 / 2016

2016 / 2017

Net sales

0

441

Cost of sales

0

(133)

Gross profit
General administrative expenses

0

308

(667)

(644)

Other operating income

490

155

Other operating expense

(120)

(459)

Income from investments
Net interest
Write-downs of financial assets and securities classed as operating assets
Income taxes

855

973

(349)

(235)

(41)

(51)

(7)

12

161

59

Profit carried forward

1,266

1,342

Unappropriated income

1,427

1,401

Earnings after taxes / Net income

Technology and innovations
Innovation strategy
In our research and development activities we optimize and harmonize fundamental innovation and
manufacturing processes, collaborating throughout the Group across sector and technology
boundaries. For example we have defined a standardized process for our Product Lifecycle
Management (PLM) system with digital support. The PLM system links all information gathered over
the lifecycle of a product.
Our cross-Group research and development work is driven by the Corporate Function “Technology,
Innovation & Sustainability”, or TIS for short. This function is established in all business areas and
the regions. TIS coordinates and formulates joint procedures and secures patent protection for
research and development (R&D). At the same time it introduces new topic areas in the Group and
provides initial support in addressing them. In this way we utilize the combined strengths of our
diversified industrial group. In the reporting year our innovation work focused on the subjects of
digitization, smart energy (technologies for the energy transition), sustainable mobility, resourceefficient processes and cross-sector innovation.

82

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

The driving force behind our innovations is our global research and development (R&D) network
with some 4,500 employees at around 90 sites. We supplement this R&D network by cooperating
with external partners such as universities, research institutes and other industrial enterprises. Our
innovative capabilities are reflected in the roughly 2,300 industrial property rights we registered in
the reporting period. thyssenkrupp’s patent portfolio now contains some 19,000 patents and utility
models. Spending on R&D came to €816 million in the reporting year, an increase of 5% year-onyear. Adjusted R&D intensity – the share of R&D costs in sales excluding trading and distribution –
was 2.7%, in line with our goal of a sustainable adjusted R&D intensity of around 2.5%

Driving force behind our innovations is
our global R&D network.

In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year we capitalized development costs of €33 million, compared with
€23 million in 2015 / 2016. The share of capitalized costs in the overall R&D costs – the
capitalization ratio – rose to 8% from 5.8% a year ago.

R E SE A R C H AN D DE V E L O PM E N T
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

373

383

3

44

56

28

Order-related development costs

361

377

4

Total expenditure on research and development

778

816

5

million €

Research and development costs
Amortization of capitalized development costs

Change in %

Key development areas
Digitization
thyssenkrupp is meeting the challenges of digitization with a clear strategy. On the one hand we are
creating the technical conditions by optimizing and automating our processes. At the same time we
are building a powerful global IT infrastructure. We are specifically exploring the opportunities
offered by new business models. To this end we have launched pilot projects in all business areas
to demonstrate the opportunities offered by digitization and act as a guide. On this basis we are
developing a consistent digitization strategy for the Group.
An important step in the digital transformation of our Group in the reporting period was the opening
of our TechCenter Additive Manufacturing. “Additive Manufacturing” is another term for 3D printing:
This technology permits components to be made directly from CAD files in a seamless process.
This dispenses with the need for dies, molds and the like. The parts are built up layer by layer from
powdered materials. The digital design determines the production process, not the other way
around. Materials Services has developed its own IIoT (Industrial Internet of Things) platform called
“toii” to connect all the machinery in the business area. This platform enables machines of
different make and age to communicate with each other. As a result we are now in a position to
connect band saws and bending machines, mobile equipment (such as cranes and forklifts),
complete production lines (such as slitting and cut-to-length lines) and processing solutions
including milling machines and laser cutters. This offers numerous advantages: Maintenance
requirements can be estimated in advance in the future (predictive maintenance), and processes
can be harmonized optimally and flexibly.

83

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Innovation

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

In the past fiscal year we established the Advanced Robotics Lab in Liechtenstein: The aim here is
to develop control systems that enable robots to respond flexibly to feedback from the process,
rather than being limited to just precisely repeating pre-programed processes as in the past. The
greater flexibility this offers opens up new possibilities for value creation, for example in insertion
and joining processes and also for working directly with humans.
thyssenkrupp is using the advantages of cloud-based technologies among other things to optimize
elevator maintenance. MAX is a solution that permits preventive maintenance of elevators. MAX
collects data in real time from connected elevators and sends them to a smart cloud, where the
remaining lifetime of important components and systems is calculated. This enables us to identify
parts in need of maintenance. More than 100,000 elevators have now been connected with the
system – based on Microsoft Azure IoT services – resulting in reduced downtimes at more than
41,000 customers.
In the Industrial Data Space we are working with partners from industry and research to develop a
secure data space in which companies can exchange information. As a first use case for the
Industrial Data Space we have created a new information system for truck logistics at thyssenkrupp
Steel Europe. The new platform guarantees data sovereignty for users at all times.

Smart energy
The aim of our Carbon2Chem project is to convert steel mill gases – including the greenhouse gas
CO2 – into base chemicals. The required process energy is to be provided from renewable sources.
In the reporting period we completed the shell of a technical center. The technical center will be
used to develop results from the lab for use on the industrial scale of a steel mill.

The aim of Carbon2Chem is to convert
steel mill gases into base chemicals.

Our water electrolysis process uses electricity to break down water into hydrogen and oxygen. The
hydrogen can be stored as an energy source and converted back into electricity when required. The
investment costs for our electrolysis technology are 3.5 to 5 times lower than those for competing
solutions. The process has an efficiency of up to 80%.

Sustainable mobility
For use in the motors of electric cars we have developed a new type of electrical steel with a thickness
of just 0.35 millimeters. As this low thickness also reduces eddy current losses, the steel enhances
the efficiency of electric motors. At the same time our new lightweight steel enclosures for electric car
batteries are crash- and corrosion-resistant and offer electromagnetic shielding – at half the price of
aluminum solutions.
In our newly developed diesel fuel cell conventional diesel is broken down catalytically to create
input materials for fuel cells, which are more efficient than diesel engines. The technology is quiet
and clean: As no diesel is burnt, other than CO2 there are no other combustion products or
particulates. A prototype for surface ships is in use.

84

We have developed a new type of
electrical steel for use in electric car
motors.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Environment, climate and energy

Resource-efficient processes
Our technology portfolio for fertilizer production has been widened to include a new, globally
unique manufacturing process in which the byproduct ammonium sulfate is processed into a highquality granular nitrogen fertilizer with sulfur content. The process offers significant advantages to
fertilizer manufacturers: It is more cost-efficient than conventional processes in which granular
ammonium sulfate is produced from ammonia and sulfuric acid; in addition the granular product
has better yield and mixing properties compared with other crystalline products.
To reduce reliance on petroleum-based plastics we have also developed our own manufacturing
process for the bioplastic polylactide. Polylactide is suitable among other things for processing into
packaging materials and films. The starting material for our process is lactic acid, which is
recovered from natural materials such as sugar, starch or cellulose. We are currently building the
first commercial plant based on this patented technology in China.

Cross-sector innovation
At the E-mobility competence center in Liechtenstein we are currently developing a highly
integrated electric drive axle, including the electric motor, transmission and power electronics. The
concept also includes a stator with a completely new design compared with conventional parts. The
development project brings together our expertise in a wide variety of areas – including electronics,
electric motors, rotor shafts, steel materials and the construction of production lines for the
automotive industry.

Environment, climate
and energy
thyssenkrupp attaches great importance to the topics of environmental protection, climate change
and energy efficiency – from supply chain to internal processes to customers. With our solutions
we want to help meet rising demand for goods and services in a resource-efficient way.
Environmental protection is therefore a core element of thyssenkrupp’s sustainability efforts and
thus its corporate strategy.
thyssenkrupp’s global environmental and energy management system is based on the Group’s
environment and energy policy and a corresponding Group Regulation. In addition standards and
three Indirect Financial Targets (IFTs) have been defined for the areas of energy efficiency, energy
management and environmental management. Implementation of these targets is supported by
internal committees and auditor training; exchanges of experience at different levels and
conferences also help towards this aim.

85

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Environment, climate and energy

Environmental protection in our own processes
Our binding aim for environmental protection is for all Group companies with environmentally
relevant activities as defined within the Group to have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental
management system by fiscal year 2019 / 2020. This standard contains requirements on
environmental management systems related to continuous improvements in environmental
performance, the meeting of legal and other obligations, and the formulation of concrete
environmental goals at the individual sites. It covers all relevant environmental aspects from water
and waste to the environmental performance of the products. As at September 30, 2017 this
environmental management IFT relates to almost 70 companies, of which around 85% already
comply with the standard. Related to the overall workforce that means almost 60% of
environmental management activities at thyssenkrupp are handled in accordance with ISO 14001.

Continuous improvements in energy efficiency
With annual energy consumption of the continuing operations of more than 70 terawatt hours (TWh),
energy efficiency makes good business sense for thyssenkrupp. To achieve continuous
improvements in energy efficiency, we launched the Groupwide Energy Efficiency Program (GEEP)
in fiscal 2013 / 2014; in the reporting year the program was adjusted to the new Group structure.
The original goal of the program was to improve efficiency by 3.5 TWh by 2020. Efficiency gains of
2.75 TWh had already been achieved by September 30, 2016. Due to the structural changes
resulting from the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA with retroactive effect at September 30, 2016
and the planned joint venture with Tata Steel Europe, the program and the corresponding IFT have
been switched to annual targets. For the reporting year the target was efficiency gains of 125 GWh.
At 330 GWh, this target was clearly exceeded. The measures included improved utilization of waste
heat, reduction of standby times and replacement of plant components. Translated mathematically
into emissions the efficiency gains achieved enable us to avoid more than 100,000 tons of
greenhouse gas emissions. The target for the current fiscal year 2017 / 2018 is further efficiency
gains of around 150 GWh.
Moreover, all relevant activities as defined by the Group are required to install an ISO 50001 energy
management system by 2019 / 2020. Energy management systems under this standard require
that concrete energy targets are set for each site, energy flows measured, and organizational and
technical processes defined. As at September 30, 2017 this IFT for energy management relates to
almost 60 companies, of which around 66% comply with the standard. As a result, more than 90%
of energy management activities at thyssenkrupp in terms of energy consumption are covered by
ISO 50001.

Climate protection in production and products
The goals of the Paris Climate Agreement provide both opportunities and risks for thyssenkrupp.
The member countries aim to limit the increase in global average temperature to below two
degrees and achieve net greenhouse gas neutrality in the second half of the century. To meet these
goals thyssenkrupp intends to apply its engineering expertise to two main approaches: enhanced
efficiency and innovative solutions for our own processes and our customers.

86

Energy efficiency makes good
business sense for thyssenkrupp.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Purchasing

Steel production in particular at thyssenkrupp involves greenhouse gas-intensive processes.
Emissions of the continuing operations amount to more than 20 million tons per year (Scope 1+2
emissions as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol). thyssenkrupp aims to reduce these emissions through
continuous energy efficiency improvements, but also through long-term disruptive innovations such
as Carbon2Chem, a cross-industry project to transform steel mill gases into base chemicals.
Innovative products are another major lever for thyssenkrupp. Analysis and modeling of our
portfolio revealed that more than 90% of thyssenkrupp’s overall footprint as per the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol (combined Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions) arises in connection with the use phase of the
products, for example from the operation by our customers of cement plants built by us. This
presents business opportunities for thyssenkrupp, which we aim to address in particular in our
innovation strategy and through an innovative product portfolio (see section “Technology and
Innovations”). thyssenkrupp’s good position in climate protection is also recognized by its CDP
rating (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), with thyssenkrupp awarded the highest grade A for the
second year in a row and placed on CDP’s global “A list”, which includes around 100 companies
worldwide and only three DAX enterprises.
Further information on environment, climate and energy can be found in the “Opportunity and risk
report” and on our website.

CDP has placed thyssenkrupp on its
global “A List” of the top 5% climatefriendly companies.

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Sustainability >
Environment > Environmental
protection

Purchasing
As a diversified industrial group we purchase a wide variety of products, product groups and
services. Our goal is not just to achieve an optimized price/quality ratio for the goods and services
we buy; we also design our own products from the outset to allow necessary components to be
procured as cost-efficiently as possible.
Almost half our purchasing volume is for commodities such as raw materials or materials for our
distribution businesses. The other half is used for technological products and services.

Materials expense
Materials expense includes the Group’s total spending on products and services. Related to the
continuing operations it increased by 10% year-on-year to €25 billion. Materials expense as a
percentage of sales of the continuing operations was unchanged at 60% (prior year: 60%).
Depending on business model, the percentages of the business areas ranged between 35% at
Elevator Technology and 81% at Materials Services. The following table shows the materials
expense for each business area:

87

60%
Materials expense as a percentage of
sales was unchanged at 60%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Purchasing

M AT E R I A L S E X P E N SE BY B U S I N E S S AR E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

4,186

4,751

14

Elevator Technology

2,682

2,656

(1)

Industrial Solutions

3,341

3,142

(6)

Materials Services

9,750

11,135

14

Steel Europe

4,403

5,291

20

Corporate/ consolidation

(1,628)

(1,926)

(18)

Total materials expense of the continuing operations

22,734

25,049

10

million €

Components Technology

Steel Americas
Consolidation
Total materials expense

990

1,223

24

(226)

(324)

(43)

23,498

25,949

10

Our global purchasing organization once again secured the supply of materials to thyssenkrupp’s
plants in the reporting year. More information is provided in the “Opportunity and risk report” under
“Procurement risks”.

Materials Expense of the
business areas
as % of sales 2016 / 2017
81

Corporate initiative “synergize+”
With a consistent purchasing organization across all businesses, functions and regions, we are able
to manage our global purchasing volumes strategically throughout the Group.
As in prior years “synergize+”, the corporate initiative to reduce materials costs, was responsible for
around half the total EBIT effects generated under the corporate program “impact” in the 2016 /
2017 fiscal year. We expect contributions of a similar magnitude in the coming years.
A key component of “synergize+” is strategic cluster management, which pools the Group’s
purchasing volumes across businesses, regions and functions. The commercial and technical
levers used for this, such as complex negotiation strategies and product standardization and
optimization, are supplemented by in-depth procurement market analyses to provide supply market
intelligence, a further development of purchasing market research. The first step is to determine
the need for specific analyses in the respective material or service fields using a standardized
procedure. Detailed reports are then drawn up, e.g. on suppliers or on general product cost
structures relating to various geographic regions or regional procurement markets. In turn, these
reports are analyzed in detail by the Group’s expert teams and corresponding measures developed.
Digitization will also be an important issue in purchasing in the future. Among other things we have
entered into a development partnership with SAP Ariba with the aim of mapping our purchasing
processes digitally as far as possible. In the past fiscal year we started work on the purchase-topay process, which sets out the workflow from order to billing. For this we use a more strongly
integrated online purchasing platform throughout the Group with a wide range of possibilities for
online tendering, auctions and the use of catalogues. We are also intensifying the use of electronic
document exchange with our suppliers. In addition we are introducing a global contract
management system to allow contracts to be managed centrally. The modules described are
available as cloud solutions; in the medium term we plan to integrate them fully into the local ERP
systems of our Group companies. Initial pilot projects have already been implemented. All planned
modules and functions will be rolled out gradually throughout the Group in the next few years.

88

63

59

57
35

1

2

3

4

5

1 Components Technology

63 %

2 Elevator Technology

35 %

3 Industrial Solutions

57 %

4 Materials Services

81 %

5 Steel Europe

59 %

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

We expect these activities allied with the combined strength of the Group will result in a high level of
synergies.

Sustainability in supplier management
We will only work with suppliers who have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct or an equivalent
alternative. We expect all our suppliers to comply with the principles set out in this code, which
mainly relate to human rights, fair working conditions, environmental protection, combating
corruption, and transparency into the origin of conflict minerals. Based on defined risk criteria we
conduct sustainability audits with at least 100 suppliers each year to check they comply with the
aforementioned principles and consistently meet the requirements; this process is part of strategic
supplier management at thyssenkrupp. In the reporting year we audited more than 150 suppliers.
Where necessary improvement measures are agreed during the sustainability audits and then
followed up. In this way we promote supplier development and reduce our risks.

Employees
Employees in figures
On September 30, 2017 thyssenkrupp employed 158,739 people worldwide based on its
continuing operations, 6,099 (4.0%) more than a year earlier.
At Components Technology thyssenkrupp registered an increase of 2,153 employees, mainly
reflecting the growth in our automotive components business in China, Mexico and Eastern Europe.
The number of employees at Elevator Technology rose by 1,234: In the USA, Brazil and India this is
due to organic growth in the service business. Industrial Solutions increased its workforce by 2,175.
This is mainly attributable to the full consolidation of Atlas Elektronik and was partly offset among
other things by decreases in plant engineering. The headcount in our materials businesses
Materials Services and Steel Europe remained virtually unchanged. At Corporate the number of
employees was up by 343 altogether as a result of the buildout of Global Shared Services and the
ramp-up of thyssenkrupp Carbon Components in Dresden.

89

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Procurement

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

E M P L OY E E S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Change in %

Components Technology

30,751

32,904

7

Elevator Technology

51,426

52,660

2

Industrial Solutions

19,602

21,777

11

Materials Services

19,754

19,861

1

Steel Europe

27,559

27,646

0
10

Corporate
Employees of the continuing operations
Steel Americas
Total employees

3,548

3,891

152,640

158,739

4

3,847

0

—

156,487

158,739

1

HR strategy
Our HR work is successful when we are able to attract people with the right skills to thyssenkrupp
so that we can find the right place for them in the Group, support their further development, and
offer them attractive prospects. In this way we make a valuable contribution to the progress of our
locations and the Strategic Way Forward of the Group as a whole.

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Career > Career worldwide

In the “HR Transformation” initiative we are optimizing the structure and working methods of our
Groupwide HR function to ensure we continue to meet the growing challenges of modern HR work
to a high standard and efficiently in the future. In the past fiscal year we made significant progress
with the development and implementation of our new HR model. The aim is to step up the
integration of HR expertise available in the Group and optimize collaboration between the various
units responsible for HR tasks. More than 400 HR employees from the various businesses and
regions working in groups defined and adopted standardized organizational structures and target
processes as well as integrated IT solutions for HR activities throughout the Group. The new model
has been in place in sourcing and recruiting in the three countries with the biggest thyssenkrupp
locations – Germany, China, and the USA – since October 1, 2017, and is now to be rolled out in
the rest of the Group.
In addition, standardized and integrated personnel administration processes based on a shared HR
IT solution were introduced in nine countries with altogether more than 16,000 employees. In the
2017 / 2018 fiscal year this is to be rolled out to a planned further 20 countries.

Global and agile: We promote talent
The aim of our talent management program is to create attractive future prospects for our
employees while at the same time meeting thyssenkrupp’s personnel requirements as fully as
possible. Key to this are firmly embedded assessment and development processes as well as
specific talent pools and programs for the individual hierarchy levels to promote the individual
careers of our employees.

90

The aim of our talent management is
to create attractive future prospects
for our employees while at the same
time meeting personnel requirements
as fully as possible.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

A D D I T I O N A L H R I N D I C ATO R S
Prior-year ﬁgures in brackets

€9,599 million

15.3 %

11.6 %

(€8,846 million)

(15.2 %)

(11.0 %)

143
(140)

Personnel
expense

Share of women in
the workforce

Share of women in
management positions

Nationalities in
the Group

5.1 %

3.3 %

3.1

~ 40

(5.1 %)

(3.1 %)

(3.8)

Share of apprentices in the
workforce in Germany

Sickness
absence rate

Accidents
(per 1 million hours worked)

Languages in
the Group

E M P L OY E E S BY R E G I O N ( S E P T. 30)
Prior-year ﬁgures in brackets
Western Europe

21,474

German-speaking
area1)

Central and
Eastern Europe

(20,965)

5,090

North America

66,951

22,545

(4,329)

Commonwealth
of Independent
States
Greater
China

887
(880)

(64,641)
India

Middle East
& Africa

South America

1)

4,551

(8,973)

(4,275)

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein

91

Asia / Pacific

4,184

6,246
(6,432)

9,792

17,019
(16,904)

(21,113)

(4,128)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

For some years we have used a standard system worldwide to identify candidates with the potential
for management positions. With the “tk Talents” initiative we are rolling out this successful model
to further employee levels in all business units up to 2020. In the past fiscal year we admitted
some 22,300 employees to the system. The use of feedback apps and other online tools
additionally promotes a modern and efficient system of talent development at thyssenkrupp.
From June 2017 the Job Swap program was opened to all the Group’s employees: It offers people
the opportunity to exchange places for an agreed time with a colleague from a different part of the
company. With this we are injecting impetus into the development of our employees and
strengthening Groupwide collaboration. Employees can search for a thyssenkrupp job swap partner
using a fully automated matching platform.
To advance the growth of digital capabilities in the Group, thyssenkrupp added an “IT & Digitization”
stream to its Group trainee program in 2017. Over a period of 18 months participants undergo
training in cross-Group digitization-based business activities to become experts for digital solutions
at thyssenkrupp.
thyssenkrupp is addressing the sociopolitical debate on women in leadership positions. We have
almost reached a share of 15%. That is the target we set ourselves for 2020 and corresponds to
the proportion of female employees in the company. In the reporting year we increased the share of
female leaders in our continuing operations to 11.6% (prior year 11.0%). Further information on
the implementation of the law on the equal participation of women and men in leadership positions
in the private and public sector can be found in the corporate governance statement. In connection
with our LGBTI network (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex), thyssenkrupp took part in
the Christopher Street Day parade in Cologne for the first time in July 2017.

Innovative and dynamic: We enable top performance
The thyssenkrupp Academy enables employees and managers to train at the very highest level. To
the growing portfolio of well over 100 programs worldwide we are increasingly adding digital
training courses and transformation programs – to further boost the dynamic change process in the
Group.
Good progress has been made in Regional Learning with our lighthouse project “HR Transformation”
– designed to establish standardized programs for leaders below top management level throughout
the Group: In 2017 the first two programs in this series were passed onto the regions for
implementation worldwide.
The “thyssenkrupp Garage” was initiated for the development of innovative products and services.
In the reporting year eight thyssenkrupp startups were set up by 45 employees with the support of
50 top managers.

92

thyssenkrupp Garage won Capital
magazine’s German Digital Lab Award,
coming out top in the categories
innovation, methodology, and
integration.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

High levels of performance would be unthinkable without well trained employees. In the past fiscal
year 987 apprentices started their careers at thyssenkrupp in Germany. At 5.1% the apprentice
training rate is at the good level of the prior year. Altogether thyssenkrupp is training more than
3,190 apprentices.

Safe and dependable: We are a responsible employer
We regard occupational safety and health as crucial pillars for a dependable employer. That is why
we promote a corporate culture that puts people first. With targeted campaigns and a management
team that is aware of its responsibility and works on the basis of corresponding KPIs, we again
made very good progress in the area of occupational safety and health in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year. For example, we once again took part in the “UN World Day for Safety and Health at Work” on
April 28, 2017. With the motto “Thank you for staying safe” we explicitly included family members
and friends in our activities around the world for the first time. With great success: Numerous video
postings and a huge response on social media reflect the high level of interest and commitment
shown by everyone involved. As an additional incentive for our operations, the “we care Award” for
outstanding achievements in health management was presented to thyssenkrupp companies in
Brazil, Mexico and Germany.
A look at the accident statistics for the continuing operations shows that the number of accidents
per 1 million hours worked fell by 18% to 3.1. Our aim is to reduce accident frequency by at least
10% a year up to 2020.
A corporate culture characterized by openness, honesty, and mutual respect is very important to
thyssenkrupp. Working on this is part of our Strategic Way Forward. For this reason in September
2016 we invited employees around the world to give us feedback on a total of 15 topic areas in a
second employee survey. Once again the participation rate was encouragingly high at 78% evidence that we are making good progress with our culture change. Further evidence was that in
eleven of the 14 categories our employees scored us higher than in 2014, while in the other three
there was no change. Particularly the results for the central action areas “Company Management”
and “Trust” showed a significant improvement on the first survey. This was the result of the
systematic analysis of the feedback from the 2014 survey, on the basis of which improvements
were developed by teams and managers working together. And we continue this work intensively
even now, a year after the second survey: In over 5,000 workshops the team reports have been
discussed, and thousands of improvement measures are currently being implemented at local level.
The next employee survey is planned for 2019.

In the second Groupwide employee
survey, more than 78% of employees
provided feedback on the Group’s
strengths and weaknesses.

In September 2015 the management and Group works council of thyssenkrupp agreed to create
230 additional internships and 150 additional apprenticeship places for refugees over a period of
two years. We continuously implemented this program, known as “we.help”, part of our
contribution to Germany’s nationwide “Wir zusammen” initiative. To date we have provided a total
of 110 apprenticeship places and 332 internships plus 44 introductory training places for refugees.

thyssenkrupp has provided 332
internships and 110 apprenticeship
places for refugees over the past two
years.

93

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Employees

For us, consistently creating and maintaining fair working conditions is part of our responsibility.
With our International Framework Agreement (IFA) thyssenkrupp is explicitly committed to
complying with minimum labor standards based among other things on the Core Labor Standards
of the International Labor Organization (ILO). The IFA was signed on March 16, 2015 by
thyssenkrupp AG, the Group Works Council, the metalworkers union IG Metall, and the global union
federation “IndustriALL Global Union”. Possible violations can be reported anonymously online.
The system has already been accessed over 4,800 times, 24 reports of possible violations have
been received, eleven of which had been addressed in full by the end of the fiscal year.

Flexible and individual: We progress HR work
In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year we made further progress on modernizing and standardizing HR work.
Company pension benefits are a good example. Among other things we widened the group of
participants eligible for the so-called flexplan – the new pension plan introduced as of January 1,
2017 for professionals and managers in Germany. Instead of offering it only to new employees, we
are now giving professionals and managers in our current workforce the option to switch to the
flexplan from their current pension plans.
In the flexplan, employer- and employee-funded contributions are invested in funds so that the
employees share in the performance of the capital market, while at the same time 1% minimum
interest is guaranteed. Alongside a retirement pension, the flexplan also provides disability and
survivors’ benefits. An online platform allows employees to track – and even change – the status of
their company pension benefits at any time. With the help of simulations they can decide the
amount they wish to contribute to the flexplan each month via salary conversions. And when the
pension becomes payable they can choose whether they receive their benefits as a lump sum, in
monthly installments over a maximum of ten years, or a combination of the two. This highly
advanced solution has already received good reviews in the trade press and won the 2016
company pension plan award in Germany; particular mention was made of the overall digital
concept consisting of online portal, explanatory video, pension shortfall calculator, and mobile app,
with which we have created a “hands-on” company pension scheme. In addition the flexplan’s
digital functions facilitate more efficient pension plan administration.
Beyond Germany, too, thyssenkrupp progressed its existing benefits systems so as to optimize the
rewards and risks connected with pension rights. For example in the past fiscal year a
compensation offer for certain pension obligations was made to employees in the USA to shorten
the duration of the payment liabilities. These change processes are supported by the “Global
Pension Policy” (GPP) introduced in 2015, which specifies the content and handling of the
respective governance processes.

94

The flexplan won top prize in the
“large companies” category of the
2017 German company pension plan
awards. Unique to the plan is its
digital approach comprising
interactive online portal and mobile
app.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Compliance

Compliance
thyssenkrupp has a broad understanding of compliance: Observance of the law and internal
regulations is a must for us, and part of our corporate culture. Compliance creates the framework
for our business actions and serves to safeguard our long-term business success. In the 2016 /
2017 fiscal year, compliance work remained focused on the continuing implementation of our
Compliance 2020 strategy.

Compliance firmly embedded in our corporate culture
Our compliance strategy is aimed at creating a fully embedded integrity and compliance culture. In
concrete terms our goal is to instill thyssenkrupp with a value culture in which reliability, honesty,
credibility and integrity are the cornerstones of our actions. This value culture must be jointly
supported and lived by all employees. For this to succeed, an open communications culture is
needed.
These principles apply above all to our managers, who play a particularly important role as
compliance ambassadors: Managers are role models – not just for our employees but also for our
suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. They generate awareness that our value culture is
important and right. The clear expectation on all managers is that they live up to this role at all
times. Because to us compliance is more than just abiding by the law. Compliance is a question of
mindset. This includes our clear commitment that thyssenkrupp stands for fair and straight
business. We would rather sacrifice a contract than win it by breaking the law.
However, at the same time we want to support entrepreneurial risk-taking within a clearly defined
framework. Part of this means being willing to take calculable entrepreneurial risks, to make and
accept mistakes. In a healthy corporate and management culture, performance and values are not
mutually exclusive. However, violations of the law or internal rules are neither legally acceptable
nor compatible with our understanding of compliance. The following rules therefore apply
unequivocally:
■ We investigate all reports of legal violations and clear up the facts.
■ Employees who report possible legal violations in good faith enjoy special protection from unfair

treatment.
■ Any violations identified are stopped immediately.
■ Any violations identified are systematically and appropriately sanctioned as necessary,

regardless of the name and function of the person involved.
A case in the reporting period demonstrates that we mean what we say: In November 2016 we
became aware that the CEO of Industrial Solutions had accepted a gold present for his wife from a
Pakistani business partner, an action not in accord with thyssenkrupp values. The logical
consequence was his resignation within a week, regardless of any legal questions.

95

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Compliance

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Compliance

Compliance 2020 strategy
Developed in fiscal 2013 / 2014, our “Strategy 2020” is mainly aimed at systematically embedding
compliance within the Group. This is to be achieved through numerous measures, such as the
further development of our global training programs, the embedding of compliance in our business
processes, and targeted communications.
The Compliance function also performs the role of advisor, coordinator and consolidator in other
topic areas such as occupational safety and environmental protection to ensure uniform reporting
to the Executive Board. Substantive compliance responsibility in these areas remains with the
competent corporate functions and business areas. This ensures that compliance is understood in
accordance with the thyssenkrupp mission statement, an intensive exchange of knowledge takes
place between the Compliance function and those responsible for content, and increased synergies
are created particularly in the organization and also in processes and methods.

Our compliance program at thyssenkrupp
Our compliance program is mainly focused on the areas of antitrust law and corruption prevention,
and also includes money laundering prevention and data protection.
The program comprises the three elements “inform & advise”, “identify”, and “report & act”. It is
closely interlinked with risk management and with our internal control system. In this way we
ensure that compliance is an integral component of every single business process. Our compliance
program was consistently implemented in the reporting year.
■ “Inform & advise”: In the past fiscal year our compliance officers trained and advised employees

around the world on applicable statutory requirements, internal Groupwide policies, and also
looked at concrete individual cases. As in previous years the Compliance function supported
important business transactions, e.g. in connection with major projects and M & A projects or the
engagement of intermediaries. In the reporting year over 5,100 employees worldwide attended
classroom courses, mainly on antitrust law and corruption prevention. In the 4th cycle of the elearning program on corruption prevention and antitrust law, launched in November 2015, a total
of more than 102,000 courses, net of disposals, were completed by the end of the fiscal year.
■ “Identify”: In the reporting year our compliance officers once again conducted proactive and

event-driven audits and investigations. The aim of these is to regularly examine critical business
operations based on a risk-oriented, structured audit process. Key elements in the identification
of compliance risks are our internal whistleblower system and the ombudsman. Alongside the
options of directly contacting a supervisor or the compliance department, these provide
employees with additional channels for reporting possible infringements of laws or policies
without revealing their identity.
■ “Report & act”: As well as our regular reports to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee,

our intensive compliance reporting covers all levels of our organizational matrix: Executive Board
of thyssenkrupp AG, business area boards, Group company managements, and regional officers
and project managers with market responsibility. In the event of proven infringements, our “zero
tolerance” policy applies: Sanctions are systematically imposed on the employees concerned.

96

Antitrust law and corruption
prevention are the focus of
compliance work at thyssenkrupp.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Subsequent events

Compliance organization
Our Compliance function has the important job of strategic business partner, advising on relevant
strategic decisions from an early stage. This requires a needs-based compliance organization and
a comprehensive compliance program with clearly allocated roles and responsibilities, effective,
efficient and appropriately staffed program management, and in particular structures and tasks
based on the requirements of the Group.

75
thyssenkrupp has more than 75 fulltime compliance employees.

thyssenkrupp employs more than 75 full-time compliance employees worldwide. They are
supported by a network of around 350 compliance managers. These are generally top executives
of the individual Group companies who ensure the compliance program is implemented at
operating level in their area of responsibility. Together they play a key role in permanently
embedding compliance in the Group and are available to employees seeking advice.

Selected official investigations
The Israeli state attorney is carrying out investigations in connection with naval projects of
thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, also into its local sales agent. According to current knowledge there
are no investigations into thyssenkrupp companies or employees. We have launched an in-house
investigation. We have passed on the results of the preliminary investigation report to the
authorities and will continue to cooperate with the authorities. Further measures will be taken as
necessary.
thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG, alongside other steel companies and associations, is the subject of
ongoing investigations by the Federal Cartel Office into alleged cartel agreements relating to the
product groups heavy plate and flat carbon steel. A further investigation relating to special steel
was dropped against thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG in October 2017. The investigations still
ongoing concern the alleged fixing of surcharges and premiums on steel prices. thyssenkrupp
takes this matter very seriously and immediately launched its own internal investigation with
external support. Based on the facts currently known to us, we cannot exclude substantial adverse
consequences with regard to the Group’s asset, financial and earnings situation.

Subsequent events
No reportable events occurred between the end of the reporting year (September 30, 2017) and
the date of authorization for issuance (November 14, 2017).

97

350
Around 350 compliance managers
promote compliance at work and act
as our mouthpiece in the business
units around the world.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Forecast, opportunity
and risk report
2017 / 2018 forecast
The following forecast relates to the full Group in its current structure (including the fully
consolidated Steel Europe business area, i.e. without effects from the potential contribution of the
European steel operations to a joint venture with Tata Steel); no longer included are the operations
of the former Steel Americas business area which have now been sold.

Overall assessment by the Executive Board
Overall we expect that further progress on our Strategic Way Forward will be reflected in our key
performance indicators in the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year. However, it must be kept in mind that the
economic climate is marked by great uncertainty and as a result sales and earnings in large parts of our
materials and components businesses may be subject to short-term fluctuations. Uncertainties arise
from geopolitical flashpoints and also the global economic situation and concern
■ the future economic policy of the USA, which carries both opportunities and risks
■ the performance of the Chinese economy as a key factor for global growth and as an important

sales market
■ a possible change of monetary policy
■ the impacts of the exit negotiations following the Brexit referendum on economic growth in Europe,

on exports and on future investment – above all in the UK itself but also in the other countries of
the EU
■ the volatility and level of raw material prices as an important cost factor in our materials businesses
and as a key factor for our plant engineering customers in the award of major projects
■ the overcapacities in the global steel industry, the corresponding competitive and import pressure
on the European market, and the effectiveness of current and possible follow-up trade measures.
Nevertheless on the whole we take an optimistic view of developments in the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year
and expect a significant improvement in earnings, value added and free cash flow before M & A.
Alongside growth initiatives in the capital goods businesses, a key driver for meeting our targets in
the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year will be our efficiency measures: For the Group – now, unlike last year,
without Steel Americas – we aim to achieve EBIT effects of €750 million under our “impact”
program, which will counter the risks and market effects described above and further strengthen
our competitiveness.

98

€750 million
We aim to achieve EBIT effects of
€750 million under “impact”.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Key assumptions
The expected improvement in our key performance indicators is predicated on the assumption that
impacts from possible changes to the economic conditions described will remain manageable and
there will be no significant translation effects from changes in exchange rates. For next year we
assume continued moderate growth in the euro zone, slightly slower growth in China, and an
overall improvement in the economies of most emerging countries. For the USA we also expect a
further moderate increase in economic momentum.
Despite high uncertainties, a very mixed regional picture, and generally slowing momentum, global
automotive output should increase again moderately. In China further moderate growth in output is
forecast for 2018. After a weak 2017, production in the NAFTA region will probably also expand
moderately. Despite a slight decline in Germany, in Western Europe as a whole production is
expected to increase moderately. After a clear recovery in Brazil in 2017, further growth is expected
for the current fiscal year, albeit from a continued low baseline. In India we see continued strong
growth in auto output.
The high order backlog with good earnings quality and the high volume of service contracts at
Elevator Technology already ensure that planned sales are secured well into the new fiscal year.
Particularly in Europe we will continue our restructuring measures and optimize our service and
production processes.
At Industrial Solutions the turnaround achieved in order intake and our good order backlog point to a
clear increase in sales. At the same time with the systematic implementation of our “planets”
transformation program we are actively pursuing our restructuring measures and will be implementing
further growth and cost-reduction measures. Among other things we will expand our service network
in the growth regions and allocate capacities across the business area accordingly. At the same
time we also aim to sustainably improve capacity utilization overall and in particular in our heavily
underutilized chemical plant construction business.
We expect only a slight rise in global demand for steel again in the coming year, with moderate low
single-digit percentage growth in both Europe and the USA. While the Chinese market will likely
stagnate, we expect accelerated market growth in the other emerging countries such as India,
Brazil, the ASEAN nations and Turkey. Import pressure on the European steel market is expected to
remain high. We assume there will be no lasting dislocations on the raw materials markets, with
continued stable high prices, and intense competition.
More information on expected future economic developments can be found in the section “Macro
and sector environment” in the report on the economic position.

99

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

2017 / 2018 forecast: Further increase in earnings and value added with FCF
before M & A again positive
Driven mainly by our capital goods businesses, the Group’s sales are expected to grow at a low to
medium single-digit percentage rate (prior year, continuing operations: €41.4 billion).
With growth and improvements in our capital goods businesses, and depending on the
continuance of the favorable materials market environment and possible translation risks, we aim
to significantly increase the Group’s adjusted EBIT to between €1.8 billion and €2 billion (prior year,
continuing operations: €1,722 million). To support this forecast we will systematically implement
our transformation process and the associated planned EBIT effects under “impact” of
€750 million.
■ Capital goods businesses

– At Components Technology we expect a further improvement in adjusted EBIT (prior year:
€377 million) from a mid to high single-digit percentage increase in sales and a further
improvement in margin (prior year: 5.0%) also as a result of further progress with the ramp-up
of the new plants and efficiency programs.
– At Elevator Technology we expect an improvement in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €922 million)
from continued sales growth in the low to mid single-digit percentage range and an increase in
adjusted EBIT margin by 0.5 to 0.7 percentage points from restructuring and efficiency
measures (prior year: 12.0%).
– At Industrial Solutions we expect continued good order intake and a significant increase in
sales in the almost double-digit percentage range as a result of higher order intake in the prior
year. With the support of extensive transformation and restructuring measures under “planets”
we expect a clear improvement in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €111 million). Margin will improve
year-on-year overall but remain noticeably below the target range.
■ Materials businesses

– At Materials Services, in a stable market environment, we forecast a slight decline in adjusted
EBIT (prior year: €312 million). Restructuring and efficiency measures and the continued
implementation of the business plan at AST will largely offset the expected absence of windfall
gains.
– At Steel Europe, subject to limited visibility, we expect adjusted EBIT at the prior-year level
(prior year: €547 million); assuming prices on the materials markets remain stable at a high
level throughout the fiscal year we forecast a year-on-year increase in adjusted EBIT, albeit
with continued high import pressure and extremely volatile raw materials prices.
Our goal is to further strengthen equity with clearly positive net income; for fiscal 2017 / 2018, with
restructuring expenses decreasing, we expect a significant year-on-year improvement (prior year
net income, continuing operations: €271 million).
The Group’s tkVA is therefore also expected to show a clear improvement (prior year: €(651) million).

100

Our goal is to achieve a clear increase
in net income.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Capital spending in the Group before M&A is expected to come to around €1.5 billion in the current

fiscal year (prior year capital spending, continuing operations: €1,535 million).
As a result of the further improvement in earnings and expected decline in net working capital,
though with the implementation of restructuring measures continuing, we expect a clear
improvement in the Group’s FCF before M&A with a return to positive figures (prior year, continuing
operations: €(855) million).
We will take into account the development of our key performance indicators and progress with the
implementation of the Strategic Way Forward – also keeping in mind economic justifiability – in our
dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting.

Opportunity and risk report
Opportunities
thyssenkrupp defines opportunities as events or developments that enable us to exceed the
Group’s forecasts and targets. Opportunity management encompasses all measures required for
the systematic and transparent management of opportunities. As it is integrated with the strategy,
planning and reporting processes, opportunity management is an important element of the
strategic and value-based management of the Group.

Overall assessment by the Executive Board: thyssenkrupp with opportunities as a
diversified industrial group
For thyssenkrupp as a diversified industrial group, considerable opportunities arise from our
increasing focus on high-earning capital goods and service businesses, which are less volatile and
capital-intensive than our materials businesses. Advantages on the global markets are arising for
us and our customers as we concentrate on growth regions and sectors where we make targeted
use of our engineering expertise in the areas Mechanical, Plant and Materials.

Opportunities are created by the
targeted use of our engineering
expertise.

Significant opportunities also arise after earlier implementation of planned “impact” measures and
from profitable growth in the business areas. At the same time major opportunities are opening up
as a result of cross-cutting initiatives and the consistent and systematic exploitation of the Group’s
economies of scope.

Opportunity management process
In the Strategic Dialogue, a structured and standardized annual Groupwide process, all business
areas identify opportunities arising from relevant market and technology trends and discuss
corresponding strategies. Close integration of opportunity management with the Strategic Dialogue
means that opportunity management is based on a strategic medium- to long-term approach in
some cases going far beyond the forecast period.
Following on from the Strategic Dialogue, all business areas record opportunities and risks in
operational plans and monthly reports to facilitate assessment of the current earnings and liquidity

101

Opportunities are mainly of a strategic
nature due to close integration of
opportunity management with the
Strategic Dialogue.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

situation of the individual businesses. The graphic “Opportunity and risk reporting at thyssenkrupp”
in the “Risks” section of this report shows how these elements are integrated in the standard
reporting system.
The management of our opportunities is a task shared by all the Group’s decision makers – from
the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG to the business area management boards and
managements of the Group companies through to regional officers and project leaders with market
responsibility. Roles and responsibilities within the thyssenkrupp matrix organization are clearly
defined and demarcated. This structured involvement of numerous experts in decision-making
processes in the Group ensures that opportunities are reliably identified and systematically
exploited.

Strategic opportunities for the Group
Our employees are the basis of our success. In a volatile environment we continuously evolve our
company in order to meet the global challenges of the future with competitive solutions.
As a Group we see opportunities particularly in economies of scope created by the interplay
between the business areas, the regions, and the corporate functions. For example we take an
integrated approach to research and development by pooling our expertise in Groupwide projects
and partnerships with selected research facilities and our customers. Major opportunities lie in
developing new products on the basis of a precise understanding of our customers’ needs so as to
create real added value with an attractive cost-benefit ratio for ourselves and our partners.
thyssenkrupp stands for efficient processes and production methods with high product quality.
Many of our plants set global standards in terms of resource efficiency and environmental
protection. Advancing digitization means that previously separate value chains are increasingly
converging because new products, services and business models can be developed best within a
mix of different capabilities. thyssenkrupp with its diverse technologies has a structural advantage
here. Detailed information on current cross-cutting innovations is presented in the section
“Technology and innovations”.
We also see opportunities in the systematic and focused continuation of the corporate programs
launched in previous years. We continue to work on maximizing the efficiency of purchasing and
harmonizing our business processes and our IT infrastructure. Our corporate program “impact”
remains the framework of our Strategic Way Forward and plays a major role – together with
business and theme-specific programs – in increasing the efficiency of the Group and reducing
costs across all business areas and corporate functions.
In our development projects we are also always guided by the Group’s financial scope. Unfavorable
economic conditions may result in delays or compromises in implementing existing opportunities.
More on this and on other risks can be found in the “Risks” section. Details of our corporate
strategy and possible opportunities in the planned joint venture of our steel business with Tata
Steel are contained in the section “Fundamental information about the Group”.

102

Opportunities created through
economies of scope.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Operational opportunities of the business areas
Components Technology – A key factor for the Components Technology business area’s future

business performance is the development of personal mobility and freight transportation. Demand
is growing in both sectors, creating growth opportunities worldwide for us as an engineering
partner and component and module supplier to the auto industry. This applies particularly to the
emerging markets in Asia and the Americas, where we have positioned ourselves well with new
production sites. Our products can support the global trend towards an efficient and
environmentally friendly kind of mobility that also meets challenging political targets to reduce
vehicle emissions. In the relevant areas of weight reduction and optimization of drive technologies,
we offer our customers state-of-the-art solutions and are working to steadily extend our lead. With
the further development of our chassis systems we are creating the conditions for new approaches
and solutions. We want to actively shape the path towards increasingly automated and
autonomous vehicles. We see growth opportunities here across all vehicle classes.
In the wind industry growth opportunities are opening up in both the onshore and offshore sectors.
Wind power is one of the fastest growing renewable energy forms in the world. In Europe this trend
is supported by mandatory renewable energy targets set by the EU. The technological trend
towards ever bigger and more efficient turbines reinforces the need for high-performance
components, which we serve with our global production network. We are also profiting from the
repowering of older turbines. First-generation turbines are gradually being replaced by more
modern and efficient units.
If the relevant markets and sectors (particularly the automotive markets) or our efficiency or growth
programs perform better than expected or the ramp-up of our new plants is accelerated, the
forecasts for our key performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Elevator Technology – The markets for elevators, escalators, moving walks, passenger boarding
bridges and stair and platform lifts offer attractive growth and profit opportunities for the Elevator
Technology business area in times of increasing globalization and urbanization. With our broad
product range, which includes standard systems, custom solutions as well as full service and
modernization packages, and our local presence with more than 50,000 employees at over 900
locations, the business area can open up new market and customer opportunities around the world.

With innovative products and service solutions we strive to meet customers’ highest technological
and ecological requirements. With MAX, the first cloud-based maintenance solution in the sector,
we are increasing the digitization and efficiency of our service business and creating additional
competitive advantages.
In addition, we expect continuous improvements in the efficiency and competitiveness of Elevator
Technology through implementation of the measures defined in the “impact” program.

103

All business areas have operational
opportunities in their specific business
models and markets.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

If the global economy (particularly the construction sector) performs better than expected or our
efficiency or growth programs prove more effective than originally thought, the forecasts for our key
performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Industrial Solutions – If we continue to advance our innovative technologies, global growth

opportunities could open up for the Industrial Solutions business area in turnkey industrial plants
and services despite the deterioration of the investment climate, increasingly fierce competition
and political uncertainties on the relevant markets. To increase competitiveness and exploit the
growth opportunities in our markets even more effectively, we are driving forward the
regionalization of our business. At the same time we are continuously standardizing and optimizing
our project management methods, working in a global engineering network to guarantee optimum
capacity utilization. All initiatives in this connection are brought together in our “planets”
transformation program. We have defined acceleration measures and focus themes for this
program throughout the business area.
In the marine sector, orders for the German Navy and in particular submarine projects for export
provide a good market outlook for the next few years. If our various campaigns for submarine
programs around the world succeed, this will benefit our order backlog and workload.
If the relevant markets and sectors, the efficiency and growth programs, the investment activity of
our customers or contract execution perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key
performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Materials Services – Services are gaining further importance for Materials Services as producers

and processors focus more strongly on their core business. Materials Services is increasingly also
taking on the management of customers’ supply chains. Higher service shares generally offer
Materials Services increased profitability in a volatile materials market. Opportunities for the
business area therefore arise from customer orientation, specific market and sector know-how, a
global network and broad expertise in project management.
The continuous development and implementation of tailored digital solutions – for example our
B2B portals – offers many opportunities for Materials Services to be an even better and more
efficient partner to our customers. Materials Services is continuously driving the digital
transformation of the business area along the entire supply chain. Interconnected collaboration and
interactive processes are already day-to-day routine in many areas – from logistics to warehousing,
equipment utilization and purchasing to administration. In all Materials Services’ offerings, the
focus is on customers and their individual needs.
Under its “focusX” program, Materials Services has identified opportunities and defined extensive
measures to further improve the cost and earnings situation. Key elements of this are the further
structural optimization of materials warehousing and service operations in Germany, the pooling of
purchasing activities and the business area-wide deployment of a project management
organization for the structured, sustainable implementation of improvement opportunities.

104

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Due to the advanced status of the optimization programs for AST, especially in production,
purchasing and sales, and the turnaround in the reporting year, further opportunities are opening
up in this business.
If the relevant materials markets, the efficiency and restructuring programs or the sales initiatives
perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key performance indicators could be moderately
exceeded.
Steel Europe – The Steel Europe business area is focused on the market for premium flat carbon

steel, the performance of which mainly depends on economic activity in Europe.
In addition, the increasing digitization of the steel value chain provides opportunities for Steel
Europe, both through the increasing connectedness of production and through the ability to
develop new digital business models. These opportunities are to be leveraged as part of the
digitization offensive in the “one steel” strategy program.
At the same time “one steel” also provides for the strengthening of Steel Europe’s technological
capabilities through targeted investment projects which will enable us to optimize our product and
customer portfolio in accordance with the requirements of the market.
Overall therefore, even in a difficult market environment, Steel Europe is well placed to participate
sustainably in the major global trends of urbanization, increasing mobility, and more efficient use of
scarce resources – all of which require the use of intelligent steel products.
If the measures defined under “one steel” and the relevant steel market environment perform
better than expected and in particular import pressure weakens, the forecasts for our key
performance indicators could be exceeded.

Risks
thyssenkrupp defines risks as events or developments that reduce our ability to achieve the
Group’s forecasts and targets. Risk management encompasses all measures involved in the
systematic and transparent management of risks. With its link to planning and reporting processes
in controlling, risk management is an important element of the value-based management of the
Group and goes far beyond the early identification of risks required by law. Efficient, forwardlooking risk management therefore also serves the interests of capital providers and other
stakeholders.

Overall assessment by the Executive Board: Risks at thyssenkrupp further reduced,
existence of the Group secured
The Group’s risk profile improved further in the reporting year; in particular the sale of Steel
Americas led to a significant reduction of tax and operational risks. Transparent and systematic risk
management with structured processes ensured overall risks in the Group were efficiently managed.

105

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

From the current perspective there are no risks that threaten the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern.

No risks that threaten the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern.

Risk strategy and risk policy
Our risk strategy is focused on securing the existence of the company and increasing the value of
the company sustainably. Business success requires opportunities to be recognized and associated
risks to be identified and evaluated. Business risks should be entered into consciously and
responsibly and managed proactively. Risks threatening the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern must be avoided.
In its “Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Policy” thyssenkrupp has defined basic principles
for corporate governance and risk management. The Policy also describes the universally
applicable risk policy principles in the Group as a framework for meeting the requirements of proper,
consistent and proactive risk management. The principles are based on the thyssenkrupp Group
mission statement and the strategic goals for the various business models; they serve as
guidelines for professional and responsible risk management.
The aims of risk management at thyssenkrupp are to increase risk awareness and establish a
value-based risk culture at all corporate levels. Risks and opportunities in the Group are therefore
analyzed transparently and are systematically incorporated into business decisions.

Risk management process
We continuously enhance the Group’s risk management system by following the internationally
recognized COSO model and integrating it with our internal control system. In optimizing the
systems, we promptly implement requirements and suggestions of the Executive Board and the
Supervisory Board Audit Committee. Under our GRC Policy, our risk management system
methodology is embedded in the three lines of defense model. Details can be found in the
corporate governance report.
Group risk management has the task of continuously developing the risk management system
towards best practice standard and adapting it to new insights and requirements where needed. In
the Group policy on risk management we have defined standard binding requirements for the risk
management process.
The sub-processes of risk management are: first, identify and report risks early, second, assess
risks consistently, third, control risks and develop measures, and fourth monitor risks and track
implementation of measures. The efficient design of our various risk management instruments
ensures that the sub-processes are integrated in a continuous risk management loop and all risk
managers are involved appropriately in the risk management process. Our methods and tools to
identify, assess, control and report risks are implemented throughout the Group and are continually
improved.
The organizational anchoring of Group risk management in operational and strategic controlling
facilitates active and holistic risk management integrated with planning and reporting processes.
Our risk management instruments are focused on deviations in the key performance indicators
“adjusted EBIT” and “free cash flow before M & A”. The following graphic outlines our various
approaches, which are explained briefly below:

106

Risk management throughout the
Group is based on standardized subprocesses and procedures.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

O P P O R T U N I T Y A N D R I S K R E P O R T I N G AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

in budget

Risk scenarios

Risk inventory

Provisions
for risks

Identiﬁcation and
assessment of
opportunities and
risks not included in
current estimation

Identiﬁcation and
assessment of
opportunities and
risks not included in
budget

Analysis of
concentration risks
based on deﬁned
common scenarios

Identiﬁcation,
assessment and
management
of risks in all
operating units
not included in
estimation and
budget planning

Analysis of main
provisions for
risks/measures
monitoring

Current
ﬁscal year

Following
ﬁscal year

Scenariodependent

Planning
period

Current
ﬁscal year

Monthly

Yearly

At least yearly

Twice yearly

Four times yearly

Goal/content

in estimation

Time horizon

Risks

Interval

Opportunities and risks

Standard reporting
Monthly
reporting

Budget
reporting

Risk and Internal Control Committee and Audit Committee
Interval
Four meetings yearly

The opportunities and risks not included in the monthly updated projections or in the budget are
part of standard business area reporting. Regular discussion of opportunities and risks makes an
important contribution to integrated business management during the year and to corporate
planning, in which we analyze bands for the key performance indicators “adjusted EBIT” and “free
cash flow before M & A” related to the current and the subsequent fiscal year.
As part of the planning process and on an ad hoc basis we also analyze macroeconomic
concentration risks based on Groupwide risk scenarios taking into account centrally defined
interdependencies and risk premises. These risk scenarios mainly address slumps of major
economies and other exogenous shocks and their impacts on thyssenkrupp.
To record relevant event risks in a structured way in specific areas of responsibility, all Group
companies worldwide use a standardized IT risk management application to prepare risk maps.
This ensures that earnings and cash risks influencing our key performance indicators are recorded
locally by the operational risk managers and reported through a series of approval and aggregation
processes via the business area management boards to the top level of the Group. The
assessment period used for the risk map goes beyond the period covered by the forecast and
provides complete transparency into the local risk assessments. The regular bottom-up reporting
and updating of risks also ensures that risk awareness remains high throughout the Group.

107

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Risks already recognized via balance sheet provisions are also the subject of standardized analyses
and risk reporting, ensuring systematic control of these risks too.
Ad hoc risks are communicated immediately to the risk management officers and are also
documented via the established reporting channels.
These standardized risk management processes ensure that the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board are informed promptly and in a structured way about the Group’s current risk situation.
However, despite comprehensive risk analysis, the occurrence of risks cannot be systematically
ruled out.

Roles and responsibilities
Risk management at thyssenkrupp is a combined top-down/bottom-up process. Binding system
standards are formulated top-down by the Group and apply to all operating entities. Responsibility
for measuring and controlling risks along the value chain lies with the functional managers in the
operating entities (bottom up).
The material Group risks are discussed and validated in meetings of the interdisciplinary Risk and
Internal Control Committee (RICC) held once every quarter and chaired by the CFO. At the same
time this forms the preparation for risk reporting to the Executive Board and Audit Committee. The
RICC meetings are attended by all Group officers responsible for governance, risk and compliance.
This interdisciplinary approach at committee level makes a key contribution to improving corporate
governance processes in the Group.
Employees responsible for risk management receive regular training on using the individual
instruments; we also use our Groupwide web-based IT risk management tool to provide targeted
information and training material.
Internal Auditing uses the information from the risk maps for its risk-oriented audit planning. The
internal audits structured on this basis contribute to the efficient monitoring of the risk
management system and deliver insights to increase the quality of the information and further
improve risk management in the Group.

Risk assessment
Identified risks are assessed consistently according to the Group risk management rules as follows:
Based on probability of occurrence and impact on the key performance indicators in the planning
period we define risk classes according to the following graphic. The main individual risks in
defined risk categories, which we address in the following sections, are classified in accordance
with this system as high, medium or low:

108

The Group’s standardized risk
management system is a combined
top-down/bottom-up process.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

R I S K C L A S S E S AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

Low risk

Medium risk

High risk

> 500 (high)

Impact in million €

≥ 250 to ≤ 500 (medium)

≥ 50 to < 250 (slight)

< 50 (very slight)
< 10 (very slight)

≥ 10 to < 25 (slight)

≥ 25 to ≤ 50 (medium)

> 50 (high)

Probability in %

Risk control
In the risk mapping process all consolidated Group entities are required to formulate risk control
measures for the individual risks identified and assessed in the three-year planning period and
systematically monitor their implementation.
Risk presentation at thyssenkrupp is by the net method, i.e. taking into account existing risk control
measures that reduce gross risk.
R I S K M A N AG E M E N T M E A S U R E S AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

Prevent risks
Transfer risks
Gross risks

Reduce risks
Net risks

We prevent risks by following the risk policy principles and not entering into transactions if they
infringe thyssenkrupp codes of conduct or policies. These mainly include the zero-tolerance
principle in compliance-related matters and the prohibition of speculation set out in the Group’s
Corporate Finance Policy.
We transfer risks in cases where the financial scale of a risk can be minimized by central measures
such as insurance policies. More information is contained in the section below on risk transfer.
We reduce risks by taking appropriate targeted measures and for example by continuously
improving a functioning internal control system. More information on the individual initiatives can
be found in the sections “Internal control system in the Group accounting process” and
“Operational risks of the business areas”.

109

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Risk transfer
Risk transfer to insurers is handled centrally at thyssenkrupp AG. The scope and design of
insurance cover are determined on the basis of structured risk assessments in which insurable
risks at the Group companies are identified, evaluated and reduced or eliminated through specific
protection plans. A balanced portfolio reduces the risk of insurer insolvency.

The Group’s internal insurance
provider organizes the transfer of risk.

Binding standards are in place for all Group companies to keep risk prevention at a sustainable and
appropriately high level. These standards are developed by experts from all areas of the Group
under the leadership of thyssenkrupp AG and are updated as required. Internal and external
auditors regularly check compliance with these standards.

Internal control system in the Group accounting process
The internal control system comprises all the systematically defined controls and monitoring
activities aimed at ensuring the security and efficiency of business management, the reliability of
financial reporting, and compliance of all activities with laws and policies. An effective and efficient
internal control system is key to the successful management of risks in our business processes.
As part of the harmonization of business processes at thyssenkrupp we are also continuously
developing the internal control system throughout the Group using a standardized risk control
matrix and a structured self-assessment process.
Various monitoring measures and controls in the accounting process help ensure compliant
financial reporting. For consolidation we use a Group tool based on standard software. In this way
we ensure consistent procedures and minimize the risk of misstatements in the Group’s accounting
and external reporting. An appropriate segregation of functions and application of the dual-control
principle reduce the risk of fraudulent conduct.
thyssenkrupp has clearly defined the sub-processes involved in financial reporting and assigned
clear responsibilities for them. Corporate Function Controlling, Accounting & Risk is responsible for
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and issues binding instructions to the local
units with regard to content and timing. In this way we ensure consistent accounting practices
throughout the Group with minimum scope for discretion in connection with the recognition,
measurement and reporting of assets and liabilities. Group-owned shared service centers support
the local units in preparing local financial statements. All employees involved in the accounting
process undergo regular training.
We perform regular central system backups on the IT systems used in the consolidation process in
order to avoid data losses and system failures. The security strategy also includes system controls,
manual spot checks by experienced employees, and custom authorizations and access controls.
Internal Auditing regularly checks the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management
systems and is therefore integrated in the overall process.

110

The internal control system reduces
process-related risks.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

By means of these coordinated processes, systems and controls we ensure that the Group’s
accounting is reliable and complies with IFRS, German GAAP (HGB) and other relevant standards
and laws.

Risk categorization
To structure the types of risks we have categorized the next sections in the following clusters:
■ Risks from external parameters
■ Financial risks
■ Legal risks and compliance risks
■ Risks from operating activities

Risks from external parameters:
The external risks mainly include macroeconomic risks and regulatory risks.
Macroeconomic risks – Economic risks for our business models exist when positive impetus is not

forthcoming from the global economy and markets of relevance for thyssenkrupp and growth rates
fall below the economic forecasts.
In Europe there are uncertainties regarding the results of the Brexit negotiations with the UK and
Europe-critical developments in individual member states. Individual debt crises in the euro zone
also remain unresolved, so a crisis of confidence in the institutions of the EU and lower growth
rates in the European economies are conceivable.
The political course and the budget deficit in the USA, slower growth rates in China, a prolonged
recession in emerging economies like Brazil, or exogenous shocks such as a further escalation of
violence in crisis regions could have major effects on the global economy; this would also affect
thyssenkrupp. In the event of a severe exogenous shock the individual economic risks would be
medium. We continuously monitor the corresponding country-specific conditions based on wideranging early warning indicators. In Groupwide risk scenarios we simulate the impacts of lower
growth rates and changed exchange rates on our business models to enable us to take action and
minimize risks at an early stage when necessary.

Risk scenarios simulate the impact of
economic risks and exogenous
shocks.

Our current economic assessment is presented in detail in the section “Macro and sector
environment”.
Regulatory risks - New laws and other changes in the legal framework at national and international

level could entail risks for our business activities if they lead to higher costs or other disadvantages
for thyssenkrupp compared with our competitors directly or in respect of our value chain. Overall
the regulatory risks for thyssenkrupp are classified as medium.
As an energy-intensive industrial and services group, we face earnings risks on the global markets
if additional costs are imposed under energy- and climate-related rules which we are not able to
pass onto our customers, or only to a limited extent. thyssenkrupp supports effective climate
protection efforts and a sustainable energy transition in which climate protection, security of supply,
and competitiveness are equal priorities. We support the relevant discussion processes on

111

Risks for our business models could
result from national and international
regulations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

regulatory efforts through close working contacts with the relevant institutions and also cooperate
with industry associations to reduce possible risks such as further rising energy costs. Concrete
risks for Steel Europe in this connection are described in the section “Operational risks of the
business areas”.
Further regulatory risks may ensue from tax framework conditions which change over time or where
there is legal uncertainty. For example certain tax benefits are currently being examined by the
constitutional court. Should the court cases result in the benefits being removed and/or reduced,
substantial back taxes cannot be excluded. In the concrete case of the ongoing constitutional court
review of tax benefits granted in the past for thyssenkrupp CSA, as part of the sale of the Brazilian
steel mill to Ternium we agreed to share the risk with the purchaser in the event of a negative
decision by the courts.

Financial risks:
The central responsibilities of thyssenkrupp AG include coordinating and managing finance
requirements within the Group and securing the financial independence of the company as a whole.
To achieve this we optimize Group financing and limit the financial risks. The individual risks
identified in this risk category are presented below and are assessed as low.
Default risks – We enter into financial instrument transactions in the financing area only with
counterparties which have a very high credit standing and/or are covered by a deposit guarantee
fund. Transactions are concluded only within specified counterparty risk limits. Outstanding
receivables and default risks in connection with supplies and services are constantly monitored by
the Group companies; in some cases they are additionally insured under commercial credit policies.
The credit standing of key account customers is monitored particularly closely.
Liquidity risks – To secure the solvency and financial flexibility of the Group at all times, we maintain

long-term credit facilities and cash funds on the basis of a multi-year financial planning system and
a liquidity planning system on a rolling monthly basis. The cash pooling system and external
financings are concentrated mainly on thyssenkrupp AG and specific foreign companies. We use
the cash pooling system to allocate resources to Group companies internally according to
requirements.
Market risks – Various measures are used to mitigate or eliminate the risk of fluctuations in the fair

values or future cash flows from financial instruments due to market changes. These mainly
include over-the-counter foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps, cross currency
swaps and commodity forward contracts with banks and trading partners. To hedge against
commodity price risks we also use exchange-traded futures. The use of derivative financial
instruments is extensively monitored, with checks being carried out on the basis of various policies
in the framework of regular reporting.

112

Financial risks are limited by centrally
managed measures.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Currency risks – To contain the risks of our numerous payment flows in different currencies – in

particular in US dollars – we have developed Groupwide policies for foreign currency management.
All companies of the Group are required to hedge foreign currency positions at the time of their
inception; our central hedging platform is mainly used for this. Translation risks arising from the
conversion of foreign currency positions are generally not hedged.
Interest rate risks – To cover our capital requirements we have procured funds on the international

money and capital markets in different currencies and with various maturities. The resulting
financial liabilities and our financial investments are partially exposed to risks from changing
interest rates. The task of central interest rate management is to control and optimize this risk of
changing interest rates. For this, regular interest rate risk analyses are prepared, the results of
which feed into our risk management system.
The “financial risks” cluster also includes valuation risks and risks associated with pension
obligations.
Valuation risks – Active portfolio management is one of the key pillars of our Strategic Way Forward.

The disposal and acquisition of businesses as well as restructurings within our existing businesses
are associated with risks, and our strategic business units are regularly tested for impairment. The
risks identified in this category, which we classify in each case as medium, are monitored
continuously and provisions are recognized where required.
Risks associated with pension obligations - The fund assets used to cover pension liabilities are

exposed to capital market risks. To minimize these risks, the individual investment forms are
selected and weighted with the support of independent experts. In addition, parts of the
investments are aligned with the structure of the pension obligations in selected countries for the
purposes of risk management (liability-driven investment).
In connection with the valuation of pensions, thyssenkrupp is exposed to the risk of falling interest
rates. Lower discount rates for pension obligations result in pension provisions increasing further
and weighing on equity.
Pension obligations are exposed to risks from increased life expectancies of beneficiaries and from
requirements to adjust pension amounts on a regular basis. In addition, payments to pension
funds may increase substantially in some countries in the future due to stricter statutory
requirements. In individual cases, the premature cancellation of a pension plan may necessitate an
additional allocation.
Overall we classify the risks associated with pension obligations as medium.

Legal risks and compliance risks:
Legal and compliance risks include litigation risks, compliance risks focused on antitrust and
corruption violations, and risks from trade restrictions.
Litigation risks – We define litigation risks as risks in connection with pending or imminent lawsuits
or regulatory or administrative court proceedings brought against thyssenkrupp. The thyssenkrupp
Group uses a software tool with which litigation risks are systematically identified, categorized,
evaluated and reported under the established risk management system to the Executive Board and

113

Falling interest rates could represent a
balance sheet risk in connection with
the valuation of pension obligations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. We carefully examine claims asserted by third parties for
merit. Legal disputes in and out of court are supported by in-house counsel and where necessary
external counsel.
Based on current estimates there are no litigation risks – with the exception of the compliance risks
mentioned below – which could individually or cumulatively be classified as high. Cumulative
litigation risks are combined risks from lawsuits brought by numerous claimants and from
regulatory proceedings against thyssenkrupp which relate to the same matter and can be classified
as a single litigation risk. Information on further litigation risks for which we have recognized
provisions or which are classified as contingent liabilities is provided in Notes 15 and 20).
Compliance risks – We operate a strict compliance program focused on reducing the risk of antitrust

and corruption violations, because these offenses have enormous potential for damage, both
financial and in terms of reputation. For this reason compliance risks in general are classified as
high.
The Bremen public prosecutor ended all proceedings against Atlas Elektronik by issuing a forfeiture
order in the amount of approx. €48 million. No fine was imposed. The support for the
investigations and the further development and entrenchment of compliance and risk management
structures at Atlas Elektronik were recognized by the public prosecutor.
thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG, alongside other steel companies and associations, is the subject of
ongoing investigations by the Federal Cartel Office into alleged cartel agreements relating to the
product groups heavy plate and flat carbon steel. A further investigation relating to stainless steel
was dropped against thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG in October 2017. The investigations still
ongoing concern the alleged fixing of surcharges and premiums on steel prices. thyssenkrupp
takes this matter very seriously and immediately launched its own internal investigation with
external support. Based on the facts currently known to us, we cannot exclude substantial adverse
consequences with regard to the Group’s asset, financial and earnings situation.
Risks from trade restrictions – Due to the global nature of its business thyssenkrupp is exposed to
possible risks stemming from trade restrictions such as anti-dumping/anti-subsidy tariffs, export
restrictions, special monitoring measures, embargoes, far-reaching economic sanctions against
certain countries, persons, businesses and organizations, as well as other protectionist or
politically motivated restraints.

These restrictions can not only impede our business activities in individual national markets;
violations could lead to severe penalties, sanctions, reputational damage and damage claims. We
therefore take strict care to comply with customs and export control regulations and other trade
restrictions.

114

A strict compliance program is the
answer to the high potential for
damage from antitrust and corruption
violations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Risks from operating activities:
Risks from operating activities include procurement risks, production risks, sales risks, order risks,
risks associated with information security and personnel risks.
Procurement risks – To manufacture our high-quality products, we procure raw materials and other

feedstocks as well as energy and freight capacities. Depending on market situation, procurement
prices can vary considerably and impact on our cost structures. Also, suppliers may be lost, which
might in turn jeopardize our production and the fulfilment of contractual obligations towards our
customers. The individual risks identified in this category are low. We counteract these risks
through margin-securing measures and alternative procurement sources.
To hedge against raw material price swings, we also use derivative financial instruments, mainly
commodity forward transactions. The use of such instruments is subject to strict rules. Details of
these risk areas are provided under financial risks.
Risks related to rising energy prices are countered by structured energy procurement. We operate
sustainably and are working across the Group to save energy and recycle waste.
Further information on procurement risks can be found in the section “Operational risks of the
business areas”.
Production risks - In the event of unfavorable constellations and developments, our plants can be

exposed to the risk of business interruptions and property damage. In addition to the cost of
repairing damage, there is above all the risk that a business interruption might result in production
losses and thus jeopardize the fulfilment of our contractual obligations towards our customers. We
counter these risks through regular preventive maintenance and through modernization and
investment in our machinery and production facilities. In addition we take out appropriate insurance
and so transfer risks to external service providers. The remaining financial risks in this category are
classified as medium.
Accident risks during the production, installation, maintenance and use of our products cannot be
completely ruled out. A safety-oriented corporate culture and a comprehensive bundle of measures
related to occupational safety and health help minimize the accident risks faced by our employees
and subcontractors. However accidents cannot be completely prevented with these organizational
measures.
In our production plants there are process-related risks that can lead to air and water pollution.
Furthermore, some of the Group’s real estate no longer used for operations is subject to risks from
past pollution and mining subsidence. To minimize risks thyssenkrupp invests continuously and
sustainably in environmental protection and scheduled remediation and maintains a close dialogue
with authorities, local communities and political representatives. We recognize adequate provisions
for past pollution.

115

We counter the risk of business
interruptions through regular
maintenance and investment in our
equipment to ensure we fulfill our
contractual obligations towards our
customers.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

With the sale of our Brazilian steel mill in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year the operational risks
connected with operation of the plant were eliminated. These mainly include the risks of production
losses described here.
Further details on production risks can be found in the section “Operational risks of the business
areas”.
Sales risks – The risks described in the section “Macroeconomic risks” may diminish our market

prospects and therefore lead to sales risks. In the event of sustained developments, we carry out
market-oriented adjustments or relocate capacities.
We counter sales risks resulting from dependence on individual markets and industries by focusing
systematically on the markets of the future. As a diversified industrial group with leading
engineering expertise, thyssenkrupp operates globally, maintains good, long-term customer
relationships, and pursues active strategic market and customer development. Our high degree of
diversification with multi-layered product and customer structures helps ensure that thyssenkrupp
remains largely independent of regional crises on sales markets. We therefore classify the sales
risks as low.
Further details on sales risks and on our professional receivables management system to counter
the risk of bad debt are provided in the section “Operational risks of the business areas”.
Order risks – The management of major contracts involving a high degree of complexity and long
project lead times is a core challenge in the Industrial Solutions business area. Cost overruns
and/or delays in individual project phases cannot be ruled out. Individual identified order risks are
currently classified collectively as medium. To minimize these risks we continuously improve our
management instruments so that we are aware of current order status at all times and able to take
project-related measures quickly if required.

Before entering into contracts we check the credit standing of our customers carefully. We deploy
experienced project managers for order execution. Through transparent monitoring of order status
we ensure that payments are made promptly according to order progress and payment defaults are
minimized.
Risks associated with information security – Our IT-based business processes are exposed to various

risks associated with information security, which we classify as medium. Human error,
organizational or technical processes and/or security vulnerabilities in information processing can
create risks that threaten the confidentiality, availability and integrity of information. For this reason
we continually review our processes and technologies. Systems are updated and processes
modified immediately as necessary. The IT-based integration of our business processes is subject
to the condition that the risks involved for our Group companies and business partners are
continuously minimized. This is all the more important when entire value chains are transformed
through advancing digitization.

116

Our management tools help minimize
risks in the execution of major orders.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

The number of attacks by criminals and external services on the IT infrastructure of major German
companies continues to increase. In this connection we have carried out measures to further
improve our information security management and security technologies. One focus is to protect
our production operations from unauthorized access for the purpose of espionage or sabotage. A
group of IT security experts which has been continuously increased supports the Group with the
early identification of risks. In addition, vulnerability analyses are carried out regularly with the
support of our IT security team and external experts to verify the security of the infrastructure and if
necessary take corrective action.
Sensitizing our employees to the risks involved in handling business-related information is a very
important issue to us. In this connection we carry out communication campaigns and secure the
technical support required to safeguard confidentiality.
Together with the Group’s data protection officer, our experts ensure that personal data are
processed in accordance with the rules of the German Data Protection Act.
All these measures will allow us to continue to protect the Group’s business data as well as the
privacy of our business partners and employees, and to respond appropriately to potential new
risks.
Personnel risks – As a diversified industrial group with leading engineering expertise, thyssenkrupp

aims to be successful on a sustainable basis. For this we need dedicated and highly qualified
employees and managers in all business units. There is a risk of not being able to find key
personnel to fill vacancies or losing competent employees; we classify the individual personnel
risks overall as medium.
thyssenkrupp positions itself as an attractive employer and promotes the long-term retention of
employees in the Group. This involves offering management development programs, career
prospects and attractive incentive systems. We provide targeted support for our employees, inform
interested young people about career opportunities at thyssenkrupp from an early stage, and
support apprentices as they start work. We cooperate with key universities and establish contact
with students from an early stage to secure the young talent we need.

Operational risks of the business areas
Components Technology – The Components Technology business area is a global supplier of

automotive and industrial components and as such is dependent on the performance of the
corresponding markets.
Components Technology is a leading player in the powertrain sector. This position could be
jeopardized by the increasing trend towards electrification. The business area is therefore
intensifying its research and development efforts in the area of e-mobility and in the development
of alternative products to counter possible sales declines in traditional products by building new
areas of business.

117

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

For the core markets of the business area we expect continued growth in all product segments.
However, this is subject to major uncertainty. The business area is in a good market situation in
China. Slowing momentum of the markets in China could jeopardize our business prospects. The
hoped-for growth markets of Brazil and South Africa are developing less strongly than expected. In
the United States the prospects have darkened due to the promotion of coal and move away from
eco-friendly energy sources by the US government. To lessen dependency on individual markets
the business area is expanding its customer base, developing technical innovations, and
strengthening its international presence.
In addition to the economic risks, further risks come from consolidation processes and further
increasing price pressure both in the auto components industry and in the wind energy sector. We
do not currently expect significant negative effects on the sales of our auto components from the
emissions crisis at Volkswagen; however, price pressure will likely rise due to the already
announced cost reduction programs. Government regulation efforts such as the debate over a
diesel ban or possible tariffs on auto exports from Mexico to the USA pose a risk.
A general risk in the wind energy industry lies in dependence on national support systems. In
Germany uncertainties remain regarding grid connection and financing of further offshore projects.
We are countering this risk with new technologies and innovations to access new areas of
application. At the same time pressure on selling prices remains high as a result of intense
competition and the increasingly frequent auctioning of contracts. We are countering this price
pressure with optimizations and efficiency enhancements under the corporate program “impact”.
On the procurement side there are risks that rising raw material prices cannot be passed on in full
to customers or only with delays. The business area counters these risks by framing contracts with
customers accordingly.
With regard to ongoing technological innovations and improvements, risks from unplanned
earnings impacts cannot be ruled out. On top of this there are potential risks from unexpected yield
and quality problems and the associated warranty obligations. The business area uses extensive
production and quality assurance systems to avoid or limit such risks as far as possible.
Elevator Technology – Due to the international nature of Elevator Technology’s business operations

the uncertain global economy poses risks that could be reflected mainly in bad debt and project
delays. As an additional effect, competition could intensify on all markets and increase price
pressure. The business area counters these risks with professional project management in
association with extensive checks of customers’ credit standing. Protection against strong price
pressure is provided by customer retention strategies, high service quality, efficiency programs and
not least innovative and sustainable product solutions.

118

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Both the service and modernization businesses are largely independent of economic fluctuations.
Customer retention strategies help prevent possible losses of maintenance units. In addition the
business area continuously implements efficiency programs to offset rising personnel and
procurement costs.
The new installations business is closely linked with the construction sector and is therefore
exposed to greater fluctuations. However, due to the longer project times in this business,
downturns can be largely anticipated so countermeasures and capacity adjustments can be carried
out at an early stage. Inherent risks in the execution of complex major projects are countered by
the use of project management measures. Risks from rising material prices can be offset by
efficiency improvements in production and optimized procurement strategies.
Risks from increasing business activities in the Asian markets, where business is more dependent
on new installations and therefore on construction activity, are largely offset by our presence on the
established markets in Europe and the Americas. Possible economic risks in the emerging nations
are countered by expanding the modernization and service business and improving efficiency.
Exchange rate risks resulting from the international nature of our business are reduced to a very
large extent by a high level of local value creation and hedged using financial instruments.
Accident risks cannot be ruled out completely during the installation, maintenance and use of the
business area’s products. A safety-oriented corporate culture, employee selection and
corresponding training programs on safe conduct on job sites (Safety First) minimize the risk of
employee accidents. We carefully select and train our installation and service employees to ensure
maximum safety and quality of the products we install and service, providing users with bestpossible protection. Elevator Technology’s goal is to rule out accidents as far as possible, also to
avoid damage to our reputation.
Industrial Solutions – A major risk factor for the business area is the uncertainty concerning the

performance of the markets relevant to its business units around the world, the stability of growth
in the USA, and the future development of other major economies such as China, India, and Brazil.
Due to falling oil and raw material prices there is a risk of lower demand for capital goods from
customers in the oil and gas industries and the mining sector.

119

“Safety First” reduces accident risks at
Elevator Technology.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

In addition, political developments in important sales regions (for example in the Middle East &
Africa region and in Russia/Ukraine and Turkey) could negatively impact the project situation at
Industrial Solutions, leading to project deferrals or cancellations.
Increasing price and terms competition in the plant construction business, for example from Asian
suppliers, could negatively impact margin quality.
The special risks described in the section “Order risks” in the execution of major long-term
contracts and technically complex orders are countered by professional and result-oriented project
and claims management, intensive project monitoring, and the increased use of project
management measures. Particular technological risks are associated with “first of their kind”
contracts.

Industrial Solutions with execution
risks in long-term and technically
complex orders

If in addition unexpected delays occur in the programs launched to optimize costs, these could
have negative effects on our key performance indicators.
Materials Services – The global materials and service business of Materials Services is subject to

cyclical swings in demand and prices on the procurement and sales sides – in some cases to a
greater extent than other businesses. This influences our earnings situation and our net working
capital. Fast delivery with minimum capital employed is a key success factor for our business
model. We therefore work continually to optimize and digitize our logistics and the entire supply
chain, e.g. through the further consolidation and central coordination of our purchasing activities
as one of the market leaders.
In addition we contain cyclical risks by our worldwide presence, broad customer base and high
degree of diversification. This results in a significant spread of risks. The cost reduction measures
developed as part of Group and business area programs are raising efficiency and increasing
profitability. At the same time we are intensifying our service and digitization activities for materials.
Systematic improvements to net working capital management and efficient receivables
management help us minimize the risks of bad debt.
The production sites of our unit AST are exposed to a risk of business interruptions and production
losses. We are countering these risks mainly through preventive maintenance, modernization and
investment.
Steel Europe – To contain the risk of cyclical demand fluctuations Steel Europe optimizes costs in all
areas, adjusts production levels in good time and focuses on less cyclical high-end market
segments. The business area counters sales risks with appropriate staggering of contract terms
and periods. If the economy were to deteriorate, the risk of customer insolvencies would increase.
The business area mitigates this risk by intensive monitoring, using commercial credit insurance
facilities and other appropriate instruments and by adjusting payment conditions. Constant
optimization of supply chains reduces risks to quality and delivery performance.

120

Efficient receivables management at
Materials Services.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Steel Europe counters intense competition on the market for flat steel products with its strengths in
technological expertise and an even stronger focus on markets and customers, allowing
differentiation from the competition. This involves systematic investment in research and
development projects aimed at developing innovative products and customer solutions and
bringing them to market quickly. In addition, a quality management system geared to the
requirements of the market ensures consistent improvements in product quality and helps secure a
competitive market position.
Steel Europe counters the risk of rising raw materials prices by using alternative procurement
sources, risk-reducing procurement strategies, active risk management, and margin-securing
measures.
To reduce business interruption risks and improve preventive fire safety, funds are made available
for ongoing preventive maintenance as well as modernization and investment. In the event of
business interruptions, business continuity plans as well as emergency and crisis plans are in place
specifying measures for remedying damage. The business area has integrated a business and
technical risk controlling system for property insurance into its risk management process.
In addition, the move towards an energy system dominated by renewables in Germany is creating
major challenges for energy-intensive industries in general and the steel sector in particular.
Although planning certainty has been achieved by the continuation of exemptions for producers of
in-house electricity in the Renewable Energies Act (EEG 2017), full notification of the amended EEG
by the European Commission is still outstanding. Added to this are further cost-driving factors
associated with the integration of renewable energies, such as the necessary expansion of the
electricity grids and the storage of reserve capacities to provide security of supply.
Regulatory requirements placed on the electricity and gas networks of our large production sites
and our power plants could result in further cost impacts. The risk of rising wholesale electricity
prices is being countered at Steel Europe by increasing the supply of in-house produced electricity.
In response to the risk of increasing natural gas prices, the Group is pursuing a centrally managed
price hedging strategy.
We could face further costs for emissions allowances in the third trading period of the EU emissions
trading system from 2013 to 2020. A potentially steep rise in the need to purchase allowances
could be accompanied by increasing allowance prices, which would weigh heavily on the European
steel industry in the international markets. However, this risk is countered by hedging transactions.
The models for continuing emissions trading after 2020 currently being discussed at European
level contain significant risks.

121

High volatility of steel business a
challenge for Steel Europe.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

Legal information
Corporate governance statement
The corporate governance statement issued in accordance with § 289a HGB is part of
the combined management report and is published on the Company’s website at
www.thyssenkrupp.com/cgd2016-2017.

Compensation report
Contained in the corporate governance report, the compensation report in accordance with § 289
(2) no. 4, § 315 (2) no. 4 HGB is part of the combined management report.

Takeover-related disclosures
The following information, valid September 30, 2017, is presented in accordance with § 289 (4),
§ 315 (4) HGB. Details under § 289 (4), § 315 (4) HGB which do not apply at thyssenkrupp are not
mentioned.

Composition of capital stock
The capital stock of thyssenkrupp AG amounts to €1,593,681,256.96 and consists of 622,531,741
no-par value bearer shares. Each share carries the same rights and grants one vote at the Annual
General Meeting.

Direct and indirect shareholdings exceeding 10% of the voting rights
At the date of issuance the following shareholdings in the Company exceed 10% of the voting
rights:
■ Direct shareholding of Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, Essen, in the amount

of around 21% of the voting rights of thyssenkrupp AG according to a voluntary notification of
September 2017;
■ Indirect shareholding of Cevian Capital II GP Limited, St. Helier, Jersey, in the amount of 15.08%

of the voting rights according to a WpHG announcement of March 2014. Voting rights are
attributed to it by its controlled company Cevian Capital II Master Fund LP, Cayman Islands,
which has a direct shareholding of 12.23% of the voting rights of thyssenkrupp AG.

122

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Management >
Corporate governance

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

Appointment and dismissal of Executive Board members, amendments to the Articles of
Association
The appointment and dismissal of members of the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG is subject
to § 84 and § 85 AktG and § 31 Codetermination Act (MitbestG) in conjunction with § 6 of the
Articles of Association. Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of
the Annual General Meeting with a majority of at least three quarters of the capital stock
represented; §§ 179 ff. AktG apply. Under § 11 (9) of the Articles of Association, the Supervisory
Board is authorized to resolve amendments to the Articles of Association which relate only to their
wording. If the authorized capital pursuant to § 5 (5) of the Articles of Association has not been
used or has been only partly used by January 16, 2019, the Supervisory Board may also amend
the wording of § 5.

Authorization of the Executive Board to issue shares and exclude subscription rights
Authorized capital – Under § 5 (5) of the Articles of Association, the Executive Board is authorized,
with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the Company’s capital stock on one or
more occasions on or before January 16, 2019 by up to €225,119,887.36 by issuing up to
87,937,456 new no-par value bearer shares in exchange for cash and/or contributions in kind
(authorized capital).

It may exclude shareholders’ subscription rights with the approval of the Supervisory Board in the
following cases:
■ to round off fractional amounts
■ to the extent necessary to grant holders, or creditors in the case of registered securities, of

option or conversion rights or conversion obligations issued by thyssenkrupp AG or its Group
companies subscription rights to new shares as would be due to them as shareholders after
exercise of the option or conversion rights or after fulfillment of the conversion obligations
■ if the issue price of new shares issued for capital increases in exchange for cash contributions is

not significantly lower than the stock market price of already listed shares at the time the final
issue price is determined, which should be as close as possible to the time the shares are issued,
and the shares issued in total do not exceed 10% of the capital stock either at the time this
authorization becomes effective or at the time it is exercised. There shall be counted towards this
limit of 10% of the capital stock the share of the capital stock attributable to treasury shares
which are sold from the time this authorization becomes effective in direct or analogous
application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG, as well as the share of the capital stock attributable to
shares relating to conversion and/or option rights and/or conversion obligations from bonds
issued with exclusion of subscription rights according to § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG from the time
this authorization becomes effective in accordance with the authorization of the Annual General
Meeting on January 17, 2014.
■ in the event of capital increases in exchange for contributions in kind

123

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

Under the aforesaid authorizations the total shares issued with subscription rights excluded for
capital increases in exchange for cash and/or contributions in kind may not exceed 20% of the
capital stock either at the time the authorization becomes effective or at the time it is exercised. Up
to the issue of shares without subscription rights, there shall be counted towards the aforesaid 20%
limit (i) treasury shares sold with subscription rights excluded, and (ii) shares to be issued to
service bonds with conversion and/or option rights, insofar as the bonds were issued on the basis
of the authorization of the Annual General Meeting of January 17, 2014 with shareholder
subscription rights excluded.
The Executive Board is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to determine the
further content and conditions of the share issue.
Conditional capital – Under § 5 (6) of the Articles of Association the Company’s capital stock is

conditionally increased by up to €250,000,000, divided into up to 97,656,250 no-par bearer
shares (conditional capital). The conditional capital increase will only be implemented to the extent
that the holders or creditors of option or conversion rights or those with an obligation to convert
warrant or convertible bonds issued against cash contribution that are issued or guaranteed by the
Company or a subordinate Group company on or before January 16, 2019 based on the
authorization of the Executive Board by resolution by the Annual General Meeting passed on
January 17, 2014 actually use their option or conversion rights or, to the extent that they are
obliged to convert, fulfill their obligation to convert or to the extent that the Company exercises an
option to grant shares of the Company in whole or in part instead of payment of the cash amount
due provided no cash compensation is granted or no treasury shares or shares of another listed
company are used for servicing in each case. New shares are issued at the option or conversion
price to be determined in each case according to the above mentioned authorization resolution.
The new shares participate in profits from the start of the fiscal year in which they are created. To
the extent legally permissible the Executive Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board,
may determine the profit participation of new shares differently than § 60 (2) AktG. The Executive
Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to determine the further
details of the conditional capital increase.

Authorization of the Executive Board to repurchase stock
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 30, 2015 the Company was authorized
until January 29, 2020 to purchase for all legally permissible purposes treasury shares up to a
total of 10% of the capital stock at the time of the resolution of €1,448,801,144.32 or – if lower –
at the time the authorization is exercised. The authorization may be exercised in whole or in
installments, once or several times, directly by the Company or by controlled enterprises or
enterprises majority-owned by the Company or by third parties acting for the Company’s account
or for the account of controlled enterprises or enterprises majority-owned by the Company. The
purchase may be effected on the open market or by means of a public offer or public invitation to
tender or by issue of tender rights to shareholders or by using equity derivatives (put or call options
or a combination of the two). If the shares are purchased on the open market, the countervalue per
share paid by the Company (excluding incidental costs) may not be more than 5% higher or lower
than the price determined on the day of trading by the opening auction in the Xetra trading system
(or a comparable successor system).

124

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

If the shares are purchased by means of a public offer, the purchase price or the limits of the price
range per share (excluding incidental costs) may not be more than 10% higher or lower than the
average closing price in the Xetra trading system (or a comparable successor system) on the three
trading days before the date of the announcement of the offer. If, after announcement of an offer,
the relevant price or the limits of the price range are subject to significant changes, the offer may
be modified. In this case the price is based on the average price over the three days of trading
before the announcement of a modification and may not be more than 10% higher or lower than
this amount. The volume of a public offer may be limited. Insofar as the volume of shares tendered
exceeds the volume to be repurchased, tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that
shares may be purchased in proportion to the number of shares tendered (tender quota) instead of
in proportion to the number of shares held in the company (shareholding quota). In addition tender
rights may be partially excluded to the extent that priority is given to smaller lots of up to 100
shares per shareholder or the number of shares is rounded to avoid fractions of shares.
If the shares are purchased by means of a public invitation to all shareholders to tender, the
Company specifies a purchase price range per share within which shares may be tendered. The
purchase price range may be modified if the share price changes significantly during the term of
the offer from the share price at the time of publication of the invitation to tender. The purchase
price per share to be paid by the Company (excluding incidental costs), which is calculated by the
Company on the basis of the tenders received, may not be more than 10% higher or lower than the
average closing price in the Xetra trading system (or a comparable successor system) on the three
trading days before the cut-off date described below. The cut-off date is the date on which the
Executive Board of the Company finalizes its formal decision to publish or modify the invitation to
tender. The volume of tenders accepted may be limited. If due to the limited volume not all of
several equal tenders can be accepted, tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that
shares are purchased on the basis of tender quotas instead of shareholding quotas. In addition
tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that priority is given to smaller lots of up to
100 shares per shareholder or the number of shares is rounded to avoid fractions of shares.
If the shares are purchased by means of issuing tender rights to shareholders, these may be
allocated for each share of the Company. A fixed number of tender rights based on the ratio of the
Company’s capital stock to the volume of shares to be repurchased by the Company will entitle a
shareholder to sell one share of the Company back to the Company. Tender rights may also be
allocated in such a way that one tender right is allocated for a certain number of shares based on
the ratio of capital stock to the buy-back volume. Fractions of tender rights are not allocated; in
these cases any partial tender rights are excluded. The price or the limits of the price range (in
each case excluding incidental costs) for which a share of the Company may be sold when
exercising a tender right are subject to the provisions of the above paragraph, with the relevant
cutoff date being the date of publication of the buyback offer with associated tender rights, and in
the event of modifications the relevant cut-off date being the date of publication of the modification.
Further details of the tender rights, in particular their content, term and if appropriate their
tradability, are determined by the Executive Board of the Company.

125

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

If the shares are purchased using equity derivatives (put options, call options, combinations of put
and call options, or forward contracts), the equity derivatives must be agreed with one or several
banks, one or several enterprises operating in accordance with § 53 (1) sentence 1 or § 53b (1)
sentence 1 or (7) of the German Banking Act or a group or consortium of banks and/or such
enterprises. The terms and conditions must ensure that the equity derivatives are based only on
shares acquired in accordance with the principle of equal treatment for shareholders; this is
satisfied by acquiring the shares on the open market. The term of each individual equity derivative
may not exceed 18 months, may end no later than January 29, 2020 and must be selected in such
a way that the purchase of shares to exercise or fulfill the options cannot take place later than
January 29, 2020. The authorization may be exercised in whole or in part, once or in several
different transactions by the Company, and also by an entity dependent on or majority-owned by
the Company or by third parties acting on behalf of the Company or enterprises dependent on or
majority-owned by the Company. Each share purchase by means of equity derivatives is limited to
a maximum of 5% of the capital stock of €1,448,801,144.32 at the time of the resolution or – if
lower – at the time the authorization is exercised. If treasury shares are purchased by means of
equity derivatives in accordance with the authorization provisions, all rights of shareholders to enter
into such equity derivatives with the Company and all shareholder tender rights are excluded.
The Executive Board is authorized to use the repurchased treasury shares for all legally permissible
purposes. In particular it may cancel the shares, sell them by means other than on the open
market, by offer to the shareholders or in exchange for contributions in kind, use them to fulfill
option and/or conversion rights/obligations in respect of warrant and convertible bonds issued by
the Company or the Company’s subsidiaries, grant the holders of such warrant and/or convertible
bonds a subscription right to the shares as would be due to them after exercise of the option or
conversion rights or after fulfilment of a conversion obligation, and offer them for sale to employees
of the Company and its affiliated companies. With the exception of cancelation shareholders’
subscription rights are excluded in the cases stated. In addition if treasury shares are sold by
means of a tender offer to all shareholders, the Executive Board may exclude shareholders’
subscription rights for fractional amounts. The Supervisory Board may determine that measures by
the Executive Board under this authorization to purchase and use treasury shares are subject to its
approval.

Authorization of the Executive Board to issue warrant and convertible bonds and to exclude
subscription rights
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 17, 2014 the Executive Board was
authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to take the following measures on or before
January 16, 2019:
■ to issue once or several times bearer or registered warrant and/or convertible bonds (together

“bonds”) in the total par value of up to €2 billion with or without limited terms, and to grant to or
impose on the holders or creditors of convertible bonds conversion rights or obligations for nopar bearer shares of the Company with a total share of the capital stock of up to €250 million in
accordance with the conditions of these bonds. The bonds can also be issued by a subordinate
Group company of the Company; in this event the Executive Board is authorized, with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to guarantee the bonds for the Company and to grant to or
impose on the holders or creditors of these bonds option or conversion rights or obligations for
no-par bearer shares of the Company.

126

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

■ The bonds are divided into partial bonds. In the event of a warrant bond issue, one or several

options are attached to each partial bond which entitle the holder or creditor to purchase no-par
bearer shares of the Company in accordance with the option conditions determined by the
Executive Board. The option conditions may specify that the option price can also be settled by
transfer of partial bonds and if appropriate a cash surcharge. Where fractional shares occur, the
option or bond conditions may specify that these fractional shares can be added together for the
purchase of whole shares, if appropriate subject to payment of a surcharge.
■ In the event of a convertible bond issue, the holders of bearer bonds or creditors of partial bonds

obtain the right to convert their partial bonds into no-par bearer shares of the Company in
accordance with the convertible bond conditions determined by the Executive Board. The
conversion ratio is calculated by dividing the par value or, if lower, the issuing amount of a partial
bond by the fixed conversion price for a no-par bearer share of the Company. The ratio may be
rounded up or down; in addition, it may be specified that a cash surcharge must be paid and that
non-convertible fractional amounts must be grouped together and/or compensated in cash. The
bond conditions can specify a variable conversion ratio (subject to the minimum price specified
below) within a pre-defined range depending on the development of the price of the no-par
shares of the Company during the term of the bond.
■ The bond conditions may also provide the Company with the right in the event of a conversion or

exercise of an option not to issue new no-par shares, but to pay a cash amount corresponding to
the weighted average closing price of the shares in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt
Stock Exchange over a period specified in the bond conditions in lieu of the shares which would
otherwise be issued. The bond conditions may also specify that, at the Company’s discretion,
the bond with option rights or conversion rights or obligations attached is to be converted not
into new shares from conditional capital but into existing shares of the Company or another listed
company, or that the option right can be fulfilled by delivering such shares. The bond conditions
may also include a combination of these performance options.
■ The bond conditions may also provide the Company with the right to grant the holders or

creditors of a bond with option rights or conversion rights or obligations which has reached
maturity (this also includes maturity due to termination) no-par shares of the Company or
another listed company in lieu of part or all of the payable cash payment.
■ The convertible bond conditions may also include an obligation to convert at the end of the term

(or earlier or at the time of a specified event). The convertible bond conditions may entitle the
Company to fully or partly offset in cash any difference between the par value or lower issuing
amount of the convertible bond and the product of conversion price and conversion ratio.
■ With the exception of cases where a right to offer alternative performance or a conversion

obligation applies, the fixed option or conversion price for a no-par share of the Company must
be no lower than 80% of the weighted average closing price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange over the last 10 trading
days before the Executive Board passes the resolution to issue the bond with option or
conversion rights or conversion obligations attached, or – in the event that a subscription right is
granted – no lower than 80% of the weighted average trading price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange during the subscription
period with the exception of the days of the subscription period necessary to ensure the option or

127

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

conversion price can be announced in due time in accordance with § 186 (2) sentence 2 AktG. §
9 (1) AktG and § 199 AktG remain unaffected.
■ In the cases where a right to offer alternative performance or a conversion obligation applies, the

option or conversion price in accordance with the bond conditions must correspond at least to
the above minimum price or the weighted average closing price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange over the 10 trading days
before the final maturity date or another specified date, even if this average price is lower than
the aforesaid minimum price (80%). § 9 (1) AktG and § 199 AktG remain unaffected.
■ Notwithstanding § 9 (1) AktG, the option or conversion price may be reduced under a dilution

protection clause as defined in the conditions if during the option or conversion period the
Company (i) increases the capital stock through a capital increase from Company funds or (ii)
increases the capital stock or sells treasury stock granting an exclusive subscription right to its
shareholders or (iii) issues, grants or guarantees further bonds with option or conversion rights
or obligations granting an exclusive subscription right to its shareholders, and in cases (ii) and (iii)
the owners of existing option or conversion rights or obligations are not granted subscription
rights such as they would have held after exercising the option or conversion right or after
fulfilling the conversion obligation. The reduction of the option or conversion price may also be
effected by a cash payment upon exercise of the option or conversion right or upon fulfillment of
a conversion obligation. In addition, the conditions may require modification of the option or
conversion rights or conversion obligations in the case of a capital reduction or other measures
or events which are associated with an economic dilution of the value of the option rights or
conversion rights or conversion obligations (e.g. dividends, third parties gaining control).
■ To the extent that shareholders are not permitted to subscribe to the bonds directly, the statutory

subscription rights will be granted to shareholders in such a way that the bonds are acquired by
a bank or banking syndicate which undertakes to offer them to the shareholders for subscription.
If the bonds are issued by a subordinate Group company, the Company must ensure that
statutory subscription rights are granted to the shareholders of the Company within the meaning
of the sentence above.
■ However, the Executive Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to

exclude shareholders’ subscription rights in the following cases:
– to eliminate fractional amounts
– to the extent necessary to grant holders, or creditors in the case of registered securities, of
option or conversion rights or obligations previously issued by thyssenkrupp AG or its Group
companies subscription rights to new shares as would be due to them as shareholders after
exercise of the option or conversion rights or after fulfillment of a conversion obligation

128

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

– in the case of bonds issued against cash payment, to the extent that the Executive Board, after
due review, reaches the conclusion that the issuing price of the bonds is not significantly lower
than their theoretical fair value, calculated using recognized, in particular financial
mathematics methods. However, this authorization to exclude subscription rights only applies
to bonds issued with an option right or conversion right or obligation, with an option or
conversion right or a conversion obligation for shares with a share of the capital stock that may
not exceed 10% of the capital stock in total either on the date this authorization becomes
effective or – if this value is lower – on the date the authorization is exercised. There shall be
counted towards this limit of 10% of the capital stock the share of the capital stock attributable
to shares which during the period between granting of this authorization and the issue
excluding subscription rights in accordance with § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG utilizing this
authorization of bonds with conversion and/or option rights or conversion obligations excluding
subscription rights are either issued under an authorization of the Executive Board to exclude
subscription rights in direct or analogous application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG or sold as
acquired treasury stock in corresponding application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG
■ The total number of bonds issued excluding subscription rights under the above authorizations is

limited to the number of bonds with an option or conversion right or a conversion obligation for
shares with a share of the capital stock that must not exceed 20% of the capital stock in total,
either at the time this authorization enters into force or – if this value is lower – at the time it is
exercised. There shall be counted towards the above 20% limit (i) treasury shares which during
the term of this authorization until the issue excluding subscription rights of the bonds with
option and/or conversion rights or obligations are sold excluding subscription rights, and (ii)
shares which during the term of this authorization until the issue excluding subscription rights of
bonds with option and/or conversion rights or obligations are issued excluding subscription
rights from authorized capital.
■ The Executive Board is authorized, subject to Supervisory Board approval, to determine the

further details of the issuing of the bonds, in particular interest rate, issuing price, term and
denomination, dilution protection provisions, option or conversion period as well as the
conversion and option price within the above framework, or to fix them in agreement with the
boards of the Group company issuing the option or convertible bond.

129

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
2 Combined management report | Legal information

Key agreements subject to conditions

thyssenkrupp AG is party to the following agreements that contain certain conditions in the event of
a change of control as a result of a takeover bid:
■ The Company has concluded an agreement with a banking consortium on a committed credit

facility in the amount of €2.0 billion. Each member of the banking consortium has the right under
certain conditions to cancel its share in the credit facility and its share in outstanding loans and
demand their repayment if one or more shareholders who act in a concerted manner towards
thyssenkrupp AG with shareholders other than the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach
Foundation, together hold more than 50% of the voting rights or capital stock of
thyssenkrupp AG.
■ In the fiscal years 2012 / 2013, 2013 / 2014, 2014 / 2015, 2015 / 2016 and 2016 / 2017 the

Company issued bonds and private placements in the total amount of €6.5 billion. A change of
control, i.e. cases where a third party or third parties acting in a concerted manner towards
thyssenkrupp AG acquire or hold more than 50% of the capital stock or more than 50% of the
voting shares of thyssenkrupp AG, may under certain conditions lead to the early redemption
including interest.
■ In connection with the reappointments of the members of the Executive Board of

thyssenkrupp AG – Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, Guido Kerkhoff and Oliver Burkhard – resolved in the
2014 / 2015 fiscal year, compensation arrangements for the event of a takeover bid (change of
control clause) were agreed in their respective service contracts with effect from the second
period of appointment. A corresponding arrangement, likewise effective from the second period
of appointment, was also agreed with Dr. Donatus Kaufmann in connection with his
reappointment in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. Under these arrangements the Executive Board
members mentioned, in the event of a change of control, have a special right of termination
which triggers a severance payment equal to the sum of two annual fixed salaries and two
annual performance bonuses but not more than the compensation due for the remaining term of
their service contract. The installments of the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTI) are not forfeited if
the special right of termination is exercised. The same applies if the Executive Board member’s
contract is terminated by mutual agreement in connection with the change of control. A change
of control exists when (i) a shareholder has acquired control within the meaning of the Securities
Acquisition and Takeover Act (WpÜG) by holding at least 30% of the voting shares in the
Company, (ii) an enterprise agreement in accordance with § 291 AktG has been entered into with
the Company as a dependent enterprise or (iii) the Company has been merged with another nonGroup legal entity in accordance with § 2 Transformation Act (UmwG), unless the value of the
other legal entity is less than 50% of the value of the Company as evidenced by the agreed
exchange ratio.

130

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated financial
statements

3

132 Consolidated statement of financial
position
134 Consolidated statement of income
135 Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
136 Consolidated statement of changes in
equity
137 Consolidated statement of cash flows

139 Notes to the consolidated financial
statements
160 Notes to the consolidated statement of
financial position
203 Notes to the consolidated statement of
income
209 Notes to the consolidated statement of
cash flows
209 Subsequent events
210 Other information
212 Independent Auditors’ Report
220 Responsibility Statement

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of financial position

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of financial position
ASSETS
million €

Note

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Intangible assets

04

4,570

4,813

Property, plant and equipment (inclusive of investment property)

05

8,938

7,605

Investments accounted for using the equity method

06

284

154

Other financial assets

10

44

43

Other non-financial assets

11

445

207

Deferred tax assets

29

2,322

1,680

Total non-current assets

16,604

14,502

Inventories

08

6,341

6,957

Trade accounts receivable

09

5,003

5,734

Other financial assets

10

407

420

Other non-financial assets

11

2,376

1,923

Current income tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

03

172

220

4,105

5,292

65

0

Total current assets

18,468

20,546

Total assets

35,072

35,048

132

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of financial position

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S
million €

Note

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Capital stock

1,449

1,594

Additional paid-in capital

5,434

6,664

(5,255)

(5,401)

Retained earnings
Cumulative other comprehensive income
Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Non-controlling interest

474

33

2,102

2,890

507

515

Total equity

12

2,609

3,404

Accrued pension and similar obligations

14

8,754

7,924

Provisions for other employee benefits

15

373

354

Other provisions

15

589

645

Deferred tax liabilities

29

33

111

Financial debt

16

6,157

5,326

221

182

Other financial liabilities
Other non-financial liabilities

6

5

Total non-current liabilities

16,134

14,546

Provisions for current employee benefits

15

408

357

Other provisions

15

963

1,183

279

254

Financial debt

16

1,455

1,930

Trade accounts payable

17

5,119

5,729

Other financial liabilities

18

975

842

Other non-financial liabilities

19

7,130

6,802

Total current liabilities

16,329

17,097

Total liabilities

32,463

31,643

Total equity and liabilities

35,072

35,048

Current income tax liabilities

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

133

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of income

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of income

million €, earnings per share in €

Note

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Net sales

23, 25

38,000

41,447

Cost of sales

04, 05

(31,421)

(34,487)

6,579

6,960

Gross margin
Research and development cost
Selling expenses
General and administrative expenses

(373)

(383)

(2,817)

(2,958)

(2,346)

(2,602)

Other income

25

213

278

Other expenses

26

(97)

(167)

Other gains/(losses), net

27

22

29

1,179

1,156

Income/(loss) from operations
Income from companies accounted for using the equity method
Finance income
Finance expense
Financial income/(expense), net

28

Income/(loss) from continuing operations before tax

46

15

916

776

(1,449)

(1,181)

(488)

(391)

691

765

29

(334)

(495)

357

271

03

(96)

(861)

261

(591)

thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders

296

(649)

Non-controlling interest

(35)

59

261

(591)

Income tax (expense)/income
Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)
Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
Net income/(loss)

Thereof:

Net income/(loss)

Basic and diluted earnings per share based on

30

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders)

0.55

0.37

Net income/(loss) (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders)

0.52

(1.15)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
1)
Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

134

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of comprehensive
income
Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017

million €

Net income/(loss)

261

(591)

Items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods:
Other comprehensive income from remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net

(1,272)

857

381

(237)

(891)

620

(10)

6

(901)

627

73

(253)

1

(219)

74

(472)

Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net

0

2

Net realized (gains)/losses

0

0

Tax effect

0

2

Net unrealized (gains)/losses

0

4

Tax effect
Other comprehensive income from remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations, net
Share of unrealized gains/(losses) of investments accounted for using the equity-method
Subtotals of items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods
Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods:
Foreign currency translation adjustment
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net
Net realized (gains)/losses
Net unrealized (gains)/losses
Unrealized gains/(losses) from available-for-sale financial assets

Unrealized gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments (cash flow hedges)
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net
Net realized (gains)/losses
Tax effect
Net unrealized (gains)/losses

(18)

61

7

(35)

14

(10)

3

15

Share of unrealized gains/(losses) of investments accounted for using the equity-method

(9)

(8)

Subtotals of items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods

68

(461)

Other comprehensive income

(833)

166

Total comprehensive income

(572)

(425)

(559)

(465)

(13)

40

Thereof:
thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders
Non-controlling interest
Total comprehensive income attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders refers to:
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations1)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
1)
Prior-year figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

135

(571)

594

12

(1,059)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of changes in equity

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of changes in equity
Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Cumulative other comprehensive income

million €,
(except number of shares)

Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2015

Number of shares
outstanding Capital stock

565,937,947

1,449

Additional
paid-in
capital

Retained
earnings

5,434

(4,123)

Net income/(loss)

Foreign
currency Available-fortranslation sale financial
adjustment
assets

417

6

Share of
Derivative investments
financial
accounted
instruments for using the
(cash flow
equity
hedges)
method

(58)

57

296

Other comprehensive
income
Total comprehensive
income

Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2016

565,937,947

1,449

5,434

Total comprehensive
income

Capital increase

56,593,794

145

1,230

Changes of shares of
already consolidated
companies
Other changes
Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2017

622,531,741

1,594

6,664

261

(855)

22

(833)

(602)

58

0

(6)

(9)

(559)

(13)

(572)

0

(35)

(35)

(85)

0

(85)

(447)

440

(7)

11

(10)

1

2,102

507

2,609

(649)

59

(591)

9

(5,255)

484

6

(64)

48

625

(450)

2

14

(7)

184

(18)

166

(24)

(450)

2

14

(7)

(465)

40

(425)

0

(37)

(37)

(85)

(85)

0

(3)

1,373

Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest
Payment of
thyssenkrupp AG
dividend

3,307

(35)

(9)

(649)

Other comprehensive
income

125

296
(6)

11

Net income/(loss)

3,182

0

(456)

Other changes

Total equity

58

(85)

Changes of shares of
already consolidated
companies

Noncontrolling
interest

(898)

Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest
Payment of
thyssenkrupp AG
dividend

Total

(85)
1,373

(3)

(3)

3

0

(31)

(31)

1

(30)

2,890

515

3,404

(5,401)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

136

34

8

(50)

41

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of cash flows

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of cash flows
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

261

(591)

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)

96

861

Deferred income taxes, net

32

241

1,116

1,109

(8)

(1)

Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method, net of dividends received

(46)

(15)

(Gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets

(23)

(34)

591

(924)

87

(767)

(119)

(143)

million €

Net income/(loss)
Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to operating cash flows:

Depreciation, amortization and impairment of non-current assets
Reversals of impairment losses of non-current assets

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures
and other non-cash changes
– Inventories
– Trade accounts receivable
– Accrued pension and similar obligations
– Other provisions

(54)

143

– Trade accounts payable

105

919

– Other assets/liabilities not related to investing or financing activities
Operating cash flows – continuing operations
Operating cash flows – discontinued operations
Operating cash flows – total
Purchase of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets
Expenditures for acquisitions of consolidated companies net of cash acquired
Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (inclusive of advance payments) and investment property
Capital expenditures for intangible assets (inclusive of advance payments)
Proceeds from disposals of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets
Proceeds from disposals of previously consolidated companies net of cash disposed
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and investment property
Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations
Cash flows from investing activities – total

137

(728)

(315)

1,310

483

77

127

1,387

610

(8)

(4)

(17)

4

(1,106)

(1,368)

(146)

(167)

1

5

9

1,418

178

117

2

0

(1,088)

4

(107)

(125)

(1,196)

(121)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of cash flows

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

million €

Proceeds from issuance of bonds
Repayments of bonds

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

850

1,250

(1,000)

(1,250)

Proceeds from liabilities to financial institutions

892

3,575

Repayments of liabilities to financial institutions

(997)

(3,742)

Proceeds from/(repayments on) loan notes and other loans

(142)

6

Increase/(decrease) in bills of exchange
Payment of thyssenkrupp AG dividend
Proceeds from capital increase
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest
Expenditures for acquisitions of shares of already consolidated companies
Financing of discontinued operations
Other financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations

(4)

9

(85)

(85)

0

1,375

(35)

(37)

(6)

(1)

(162)

(219)

3

(14)

(685)

866

27

(82)

Cash flows from financing activities – total

(658)

784

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – total

(467)

1,273

37

(86)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – total

4,535

4,105

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – total

4,105

5,292

[95]

[0]

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – total

[thereof cash and cash equivalents within the discontinued operations]

Additional information regarding cash flows from interest, dividends and income taxes which are included in operating cash flows of
continuing operations:
Interest received
Interest paid

87

60

(402)

(321)

Dividends received

61

38

Income taxes paid

(322)

(341)

See also Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
1)
Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

138

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the
consolidated financial statements
Corporate information
thyssenkrupp Aktiengesellschaft (“thyssenkrupp AG” or “Company”) is a publicly traded corporation domiciled in Duisburg and Essen in
Germany. The consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG and its subsidiaries, collectively the “Group”, for the year ended
September 30, 2017, were authorized for issuance in accordance with a resolution of the Executive Board on November 14, 2017.

Statement of compliance
Applying Art. 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and its interpretations of the International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB) effective within the EU in accordance with the Regulation No. 1606 / 2002 of the European Parliament and the Council concerning
the use of International Accounting Standards.

01 Summary of significant accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros since this is the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are
denominated, with all amounts rounded to the nearest million except when otherwise indicated; this may result in differences compared to
the unrounded figures.

Consolidation
The Group’s consolidated financial statements include the accounts of thyssenkrupp AG and all significant entities which are directly or
indirectly controlled by thyssenkrupp AG (subsidiaries). This typically occurs when thyssenkrupp AG possesses more than half of the voting
rights of a company. As far as structured entities are concerned, the ability to control does not result from a majority of voting rights but
from contractual agreements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until
the date that control ceases. Capital consolidation is performed by offsetting the carrying amounts of subsidiaries against their attributable
equity. On acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the
date of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders (non-controlling interest) is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the identifiable
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Joint arrangements where two or more parties jointly control an activity either classify as joint operations or as joint ventures. Joint
operations result in including the assets and liabilities as well as the related income and expense on a pro rata basis in the Group’s
consolidated financial statements. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Where the Group transacts with
its joint operations or joint ventures, unrealized profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest.
Investments in associates are also accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Here the Group is in a position to exercise
significant influence, that is presumed when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights (“Associated Companies”). Where

139

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealized profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in
the relevant associate.
Subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates which influence the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of
operations only immaterially. Such entities are measured at fair value or at cost when the fair value of unlisted equity instruments cannot
be reliably measured; they are presented under the “Other financial assets, non-current” line item. Goodwill arising on acquisition is
recognized as an asset and is tested for impairment annually, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate
that it might be impaired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture or an associate is included within the carrying amount of the joint venture or the
associate, respectively. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries or joint operations is presented separately in the balance sheet.

Foreign currency translation
The functional and reporting currency of thyssenkrupp AG and its relevant European subsidiaries is the euro (€). Transactions denominated
in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in such currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Profits and losses arising on
exchange are included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries included in the Group consolidated financial statements where the functional currency is
other than the euro are translated using their functional currency which is generally the respective local currency. The translation is
performed using the current rate method. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of foreign financial statements are
accumulated and included in equity. Such translation differences are recognized as income or as expenses in the period in which the
subsidiary is disposed of.
Companies that manage their sales, purchases, and financing substantially not in their local currency use the currency of their primary
economic environment as their functional currency. Financial statements prepared in local currency are translated into the functional
currency using the temporal method. The resulting translation differences are included in the consolidated statement of income as “Other
income or expenses”. Thereafter, the functional currency financial statements are translated into the reporting currency using the current
rate method.
The exchange rates of those currencies significant to the Group have developed as follows:

C U R R E N CI E S
Annual average exchange rate for the year ended
(Basis €1)

Exchange rate as of (Basis €1)
Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

US Dollar

1.12

1.18

1.11

1.10

Brazilian Real

3.62

3.76

4.03

3.54

Chinese Renminbi Yuan

7.45

7.85

7.25

7.52

Intangible assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are capitalized at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis generally over a period of 3 to 15
years, depending on their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjusted when applicable on a
prospective basis. The amortization expense of intangible assets is primarily included in the “cost of sales” line item in the consolidated
statement of income.

140

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Goodwill is stated at cost and tested for impairment annually or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate
that it might be impaired. Goodwill impairment losses are included in other expenses.

Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Capitalized production costs for selfconstructed assets include costs of material, direct labour, and allocable material and manufacturing overhead. Borrowing costs directly
attributable to the production of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to
the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use. Administrative costs are capitalized
only if such costs are directly related to production. Maintenance and repair costs (day-to-day servicing) are expensed as incurred. The
Group recognizes in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing parts and major inspection of
such an item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can
be measured reliably. Where fixtures and equipment comprise of significant parts having different useful lives those parts are depreciated
separately.
Fixtures and equipment are depreciated over the customary useful life using the straight-line method. The following useful lives are used as
a basis for calculating depreciation:

Useful lives

Buildings (inclusive of investment property)

10 to 50 years

Building and land improvements

15 to 25 years

Technical machinery and equipment

8 to 25 years

Factory and office equipment

3 to 10 years

Investment property consists of investments in land and buildings that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, rather
than for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes or sale in the ordinary course of business.
Investment property is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The fair value of the Group’s investment
property is stated in Note 05.

Impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment
property to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to
estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit to which
the asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to the Cash Generating Units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
Those groups of Cash Generating Units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management
purposes. The recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit that carries a goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of
September 30, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. For more details
refer to Note 04.

141

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized as an expense immediately.
In case of impairment losses related to Cash Generating Units that carry a goodwill the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the
Cash Generating Unit is reduced first. If the amount of impairment losses exceeds the carrying amount of goodwill, the difference is
generally allocated proportionally to the remaining non-current assets of the Cash Generating Unit to reduce their carrying amounts
accordingly.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (Cash Generating Unit) is increased to the revised
estimate of its recoverable amount. The revised amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognized for the asset (Cash Generating Unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized as
income immediately. However, impairment losses of goodwill may not be reversed.

Leases
On initial recognition leases are classified as either finance or operating. Lease transactions whereby the Group is the lessee and bears
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are accounted for as a finance lease. Accordingly, the Group
capitalizes the leased asset at the lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and subsequently
depreciates the leased asset over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life. In addition, the Group records a corresponding lease
obligation on the balance sheet which is subsequently settled and carried forward using the effective interest method. All other lease
agreements entered into by the Group, as a lessee, are accounted for as operating leases whereby the lease payments are expensed on a
straight-line basis.
Lease transactions whereby the Group is the lessor and does not transfer substantially all of the benefits and risks incident to the
ownership of property to the lessee, are accounted for as operating leases whereby the leased asset remains on the Group’s balance sheet
and is depreciated. Scheduled lease payments are recognized in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of acquisition/manufacturing cost or net realizable value. In general, inventories are valued using the
average cost method. Manufacturing cost includes direct material, labor and allocable material and manufacturing overhead based on
normal operating capacity.

Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that at the same time gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
instrument of another entity. Financial instruments are recognized as soon as thyssenkrupp becomes a contracting party to the financial
instrument. In cases where trade date and settlement date do not coincide, for non-derivative financial instruments the settlement date is
used for initial recognition or derecognition, while for derivatives the trade date is used. Financial instruments stated as financial assets or
financial liabilities are generally not offset; they are only offset when a legal right to set-off exists at that time and settlement on a net basis
is intended.

Financial assets
In particular, financial assets include trade accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, as well as equity
instruments and bonds held. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. This includes any transaction costs directly attributable
to the acquisition of financial assets, which are not carried at fair value through profit or loss in future periods. The fair values recognized
on the balance sheet usually reflect the market prices of the financial assets.

142

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Trade accounts receivable and other current receivables
Receivables are accounted for at amortized cost less valuation allowances.
Impairments in the form of individual allowances for doubtful accounts adequately consider default risk. When there is objective evidence
of default, the receivable concerned is derecognized. Receivables that are immaterial, and receivables of similar default risk, are grouped
together and tested collectively for impairment based on past experience.
Receivables that do not bear interest or bear below market interest rates and have an expected term of more than one year are discounted
with the discount subsequently amortized to interest income over the term of the receivable.
The Group sells undivided interests in certain trade accounts and notes receivable both on an ongoing and one-time basis to structured
entities, which are not required to be consolidated, or to other lending institutions.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and demand deposits as well as financial assets that are readily convertible to cash and
which are only subject to an insignificant risk of change in value, they are measured at amortized cost.

Financial assets held for trading
Derivatives that are not part of an effective hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 must be assigned to this category when the fair
value is positive as of measurement date. Gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss.

Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets not assigned to any of the above categories. This category
includes primarily equity and debt instruments which are in general measured at fair value. Gains or losses resulting from the
measurement of available-for-sale financial assets are recognized directly in equity, with the exception of foreign currency conversion
effects on monetary items as well as impairment losses on monetary and non-monetary items. On disposal of these financial assets, a
cumulative gain or loss recognized directly in equity until then is recognized in profit or loss of the respective period. When the fair value of
unlisted equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at cost.

Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
The Group does not use the option to categorize financial assets at fair value through profit or loss when initially recognized.

Impairment of financial assets
At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence that the carrying amounts of financial
assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss are impaired. Objective evidence includes, for example, considerable financial
difficulty of the debtor obligor, disappearance of an active market, and significant changes in the technological, market, economic or legal
environment. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity instrument is an objective evidence of impairment.
The impairment loss on a financial asset carried at amortized cost is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and
the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. An impairment loss is
recognized in profit or loss.

143

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring
after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.

Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are liabilities that must be settled in cash or other financial assets. Financial liabilities are initially carried at fair value.
This includes any transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial liabilities, which are not carried at fair value through
profit or loss in future periods.

Trade accounts payable and other non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade accounts payable and other non-derivative financial liabilities are in general measured at amortized cost using the effective interest
method. Finance charges, including premiums payable on redemption or settlement, are periodically accrued using the effective interest
method and increase the liabilities’ carrying amounts unless they have already been settled in the period in which they were incurred.

Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss
The Group does not use the option to categorize financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss when initially recognized.

Financial liabilities held for trading
Derivatives that are not part of an effective hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 must be classified as “held for trading” and thus
carried at fair value through profit or loss.

Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are used generally to hedge existing or anticipated underlying transactions. Such derivatives and so-called “embedded
derivatives”, which are an integral part of a non-derivative host contract and must be accounted for separately, are measured initially and
subsequently at fair value through profit or loss. Gains or losses due to fluctuations in fair value are recognized immediately in profit or
loss. The Group uses cash flow hedge accounting and to a very limited extent fair value hedge accounting but does not apply hedging of a
net investment in a foreign operation.
More information about financial instruments is provided in Note 21.

Income taxes
Income taxes comprise all current and deferred taxes based on taxable profit. They are calculated taking into account the statutory
provisions applying in the countries in which thyssenkrupp operates. Interest and other surcharges in connection with income taxes are not
recognized in income tax expense.
In this connection management judgments are required which may differ from the interpretations of local tax authorities. If this results in
changes to income taxes from the past, these are reported in the period in which sufficient information is available for an adjustment.
Generally income taxes are calculated on the basis of the profits reported for the fiscal year.
To the extent that items are credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income in equity, the corresponding income tax is also
recognized directly in equity.

144

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Current income taxes are recognized in the amount in which it is assumed they will be paid to the tax authorities in the future.
Deferred taxes are accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement
of financial position and its tax bases. They also include unused tax losses carried forward and credits. Where deferred tax assets occur,
they are measured and adjusted according to an assessment of their future recoverability using forecast calculations and realizable tax
strategies. Deferred taxes are calculated at the enacted or substantially enacted tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset or
liability is settled.

Cumulative other comprehensive income
The equity line item “Cumulative other comprehensive income” includes changes in the equity of the Group that were not recognized in the
consolidated statement of income of the period, except those resulting from capital transactions with the owners. Cumulative other
comprehensive income includes foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale
financial assets and on derivative financial instruments as well as the share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint
ventures accounted for using the equity method. Remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations are reported in retained earnings in
the period that they are recognized as other comprehensive income.

Accrued pension and similar obligations
The Group’s net obligation for defined benefit and other postretirement benefit plans have been calculated for each plan using the
projected unit credit method as of the balance sheet date. A quarterly valuation of pensions is performed on the basis of updated interest
rates and fair values of plan assets.
With the exception of net interest, all income and expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in income/(loss) from
operations. Net interest included in net periodic pension cost is recognized in net financial income/(expense) in the Group’s consolidated
statement of income.
The Group’s obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as expense in income/(loss) from operations as
incurred.
The effects of remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations are recognized in other comprehensive income and reported in retained
earnings. They consist of actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets and changes in the effects of asset ceiling excluding
amounts already included in net interest. Deferred taxes relating to remeasurements are also recognized in other comprehensive income.
The Group also maintains multi-employer plans. In principle, these multi-employer plans contain defined benefit plans as well as defined
contribution plans. With respect to defined benefit multi-employer plans these are accounted for in the same way as any other defined
benefit plan in case the required information is available. Otherwise these plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. In
particular in the USA and in the Netherlands, there exist multi-employer defined benefit plans that are accounted for as defined
contribution plans due to the fact that the pension obligations and the plan assets cannot be assigned to the participating employers.

Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event which will result in a probable outflow of
economic benefits that can be reasonably estimated. The amount recognized represents best estimate of the settlement amount of the
present obligation as of the balance sheet date. Expected reimbursements of third parties are not offset but recorded as a separate asset if

145

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

it is virtually certain that the reimbursements will be received. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are
discounted using a market rate.
A provision for warranties is recognized when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty
data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognized when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has notified the
affected parties.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.

Share-based compensation
The Group has management incentive plans which grant stock rights to executive and senior employees that are exclusively settled in cash
after the end of the respective performance period. The fair value of these rights is calculated on the date of grant and on each balance
sheet date and recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in provisions.
Furthermore a portion of the variable compensation was granted as share appreciation rights to the Executive Board members of
thyssenkrupp AG inclusive of fiscal year 2013 / 2014 and was granted to additional selected executive employees inclusive of fiscal year
2014 / 2015. For both types of compensation, the provision is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date. Any changes
in the fair value of the provision are recognized as part of income from operations.
See also information provided in Note 13.

Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Revenue from services is recognized when services are rendered. No revenue is
recognized if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods. Revenue is
recognized net of applicable provisions for discounts and allowances.
Construction contract revenue and expense are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, which recognizes revenue as
performance of the contract progresses. In general the contract progress is determined based on the percentage of costs incurred to date
to total estimated cost for each contract after giving effect to the most recent estimates of total cost. If the construction takes a substantial
period of time, contract costs also include borrowing costs that are directly attributable.
Contracts where the Group provides engineering services are also accounted for like construction contracts. Construction contracts under
the percentage-of-completion method are measured at construction cost plus profits earned based on the percentage of the contract
completed. Revenues net of advance payments received are recognized as trade accounts receivable in the balance sheet. Variations in
contract work and claims are included to the extent that it is probable that they will be approved by the customer and the amount can be
reliably measured. Reliably measurable incentive payments are recognized if it is probable that the specified performance standards will be
met or exceeded.
Where the income of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue that is probable to be recovered is recognized
to the extent of contract costs incurred. Contract costs are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Where it is
probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately.

146

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements, such as those including both goods and services, are recognized as each
element is earned based on objective evidence of the relative fair value of each element.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the interest rate applicable. Dividend income
from investments is recognized when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.

Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development costs, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products
and processes, are capitalized if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, it is intented to complete the intangible
asset, there is a market for the output of the intangible asset, the attributable expenditure can be measured reliably, and the Group has
sufficient resources to complete development. Other development costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized development costs of
completed projects are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses.

Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net income/(loss) attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders by the
weighted average number of shares outstanding. Shares issued during the period are weighted for the portion of the period that they were
outstanding.

Segment reporting
In accordance with the so-called management approach, segment reporting of the thyssenkrupp Group is based on the internal
organizational and reporting structure. The data used to determine the internal key figures are derived from the IFRS consolidated financial
statements.

Single assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations
A single non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather
than through continuing use. The Group reports assets and liabilities as a disposal group, that will be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a
single transaction, which collectively meet the held for sale criteria as specified in IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations”. The Group reports the assets and liabilities of a disposal group separately in the balance sheet line item “assets
held for sale/disposal” and “liabilities associated with assets held for sale/disposal”, respectively. Unless a disposal group qualifies for
discontinued operations reporting, the revenues and expenses of the disposal group remain within continuing operations until the date of
disposal. The Group reports the results of a disposal group that also qualifies as a component of the Group as discontinued operations if it
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. The Group reports the results of discontinued operations
in the period in which they occur separately within the consolidated statement of income as “discontinued operations (net of tax)”. All prior
period consolidated statements of income are adjusted to report the results of the component within discontinued operations. In the
consolidated statement of cash flows the cash flows resulting from discontinued operations are presented separately from cash flows
resulting from continuing operations; prior year presentation has been adjusted accordingly.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets are recognized at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to
sell and depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal group is initially measured in line with the respective IFRS standards to
determine the carrying amount of the disposal group which is then compared to the fair value less costs to sell of the group in order to

147

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

recognize the group at the lower of both amounts. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss,
as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement, but not in excess of the cumulative impairment loss.

Financial statement classification
Certain line items on the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated statement of income have been combined. These items are
disclosed separately in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year
presentation to conform to that of the current year.
In general the Group classifies assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be realized or settled within twelve months after
the balance sheet date. Group companies that have operating cycles longer than twelve months classify assets and liabilities as current if
they are expected to be realized within the company’s normal operating cycle.

Estimates and judgments
The preparation of the Group consolidated financial statements requires Management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. All estimates and assumptions
are made to the best of management’s knowledge and belief in order to fairly present the Groups financial position and results of
operations; they are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Accounting estimates and judgments made by Management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the consolidated
financial statements are in particular relevant for the following issues:

Business combinations
As a result of acquisitions the Group recognized goodwill in its balance sheet. In a business combination, all identifiable assets, liabilities
and contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair value. One of the most significant estimates
relates to the determination of the fair value of these asset and liabilities. Land, buildings and equipment are usually independently
appraised while marketable securities are valued at market price. If any intangible assets are identified, depending on the type of
intangible asset and the complexity of determining its fair value, the Group either consults with an independent external valuation expert or
develops the fair value internally, using an appropriate valuation technique which is generally based on a forecast of the total expected
future net cash flows. These evaluations are linked closely to the assumptions made by management regarding the future performance of
the assets concerned and any changes in the discount rate applied.

Recoverability of Goodwill
As stated in the accounting policy, the Group tests annually and in addition if any indicators exist, whether goodwill has suffered an
impairment loss. If there is an indication, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit has to be estimated which is the greater of
the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. The determination of the value in use involves making adjustments and estimates
related to the projection and discounting of future cash flows (cf. Note 04). Although management believes the assumptions used to
calculate recoverable amounts are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could result in impairment charges to
goodwill which could adversely affect the future financial position and operating results.

Recoverability of assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that the carrying amounts of its property, plant and
equipment, investment property or intangible assets may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is

148

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

estimated. The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in use,
discounted future cash flows from the related assets have to be determined. Estimating the discounted future cash flows involves
significant assumptions, including particularly those regarding future sale prices and sale volumes, costs and discount rates (Cf. Note 03
and 05). Although management believes that its estimates of the relevant expected useful lives, its assumptions concerning the economic
environment and developments in the industries in which the Group operates and its estimations of the discounted future cash flows are
appropriate, changes in the assumptions or circumstances could require changes in the analysis. This could lead to additional impairment
charges in the future or to reversal of impairments if the trends identified by management reverse or the assumptions or estimates prove
incorrect.

Other provisions
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the estimation of the probability of a future outflow of resources as well
as empirical values and the circumstances known at the reporting date. This means that the actual later outflow of resources may differ
from the other provisions, cf. also the remarks under Note 15.

Measurement of single assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations
Single assets held for sale as well as disposal groups and discontinued operations are measured at fair value less costs to sell. The
determination of fair value less costs to sell can be based on estimations and assumptions of the management that carry a certain degree
of uncertainty.

Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Certain Group entities, particularly in the Elevator Technology and Industrial Solutions business areas, conduct a portion of their business
under construction contracts which are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, recognizing revenue as performance on
the contract progresses. This method requires accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion. Depending on the
methodology to determine contract progress, the significant estimates include total contract costs, remaining costs to completion, total
contract revenues, contract risks and other judgements. The managements of the operating companies continually review all estimates
involved in such construction contracts and adjust them as necessary.

Income taxes
The recognition and measurement of current and deferred tax receivables and liabilities depend on management estimates of tax
uncertainties and future business performance. This includes both the interpretation of existing tax regulations and the testing of deferred
tax assets for impairment. These estimates are adjusted when there is sufficient evidence of the need for such adjustment.

Employee benefits
The Group accounts for pension and other postretirement benefits in accordance with actuarial valuations. These valuations rely on
statistical and other factors in order to anticipate future events. These factors include key actuarial assumptions including the discount
rate, expected salary increases, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These actuarial assumptions may differ materially from
actual developments due to changing market and economic conditions and therefore result in a significant change in postretirement
employee benefit obligations, of equity and the related future expense. (Cf. Note 14 for further information).

149

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Legal contingencies
thyssenkrupp companies are parties to litigations related to a number of matters as described in Note 20. The outcome of these matters
may have a material effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management regularly analyzes current
information about these matters and provides provisions for probable contingent losses including the estimate of legal expense to resolve
the matters. For the assessments internal and external lawyers are used. In making the decision regarding the need for loss provisions,
management considers the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the
amount of loss. The filing of a suit or formal assertion of a claim against thyssenkrupp companies or the disclosure of any such suit or
assertions, does not automatically indicate that a provision of a loss may be appropriate.

Recently adopted accounting standards
In fiscal year 2016 / 2017 thyssenkrupp adopted the following amendments to already existing standards that did not have a material
impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements:
■ Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements“, issued in December 2014. The amendments mainly include clarifications

regarding the judgment of materiality of disclosures, explanations how to aggregate and disaggregate line items of the balance sheet
and the statement of comprehensive income, the order to the notes and the disclosure to significant accounting policies.
■ Amendments to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements“: “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations“, issued in May 2014
■ Amendments to IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment“ and IAS 38 “Intangible Assets“: “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of

Depreciation and Amortisation“, issued in May 2014
■ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014
■ Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: “Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception“, issued in December 2014

Issued accounting standards that have not been adopted in fiscal year 2016 / 2017
The following standards, interpretations and amendments of standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB. Their adoption
has not been mandatory for 2016 / 2017 and they still must be partially endorsed by the EU:
In July 2014 the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. The new standard includes revised requirements for the
classification and measurement of financial assets, fundamental changes to the regulations on the impairment of financial assets, and
revised rules on hedge accounting. The new regulations must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In general
they must be applied retrospectively, but various transition options are allowed; earlier application is permitted.
The Group will adopt IFRS 9 in the fiscal year beginning on October 1, 2018 and, in accordance with the transition options, currently
expects that comparative information on classification, measurement and impairment according to IFRS 9 for prior periods will not be
restated. Resultant transition effects will be reported in general in retained earnings. The new hedge accounting rules will be applied
prospectively.
While thyssenkrupp has not yet completed its detailed analysis of IFRS 9, adoption of the standard is not expected to have a major impact
on the consolidated financial statements.

150

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Regarding the classification of financial assets, the Group expects that a part of trade accounts receivable, currently accounted for
exclusively at amortized cost, will in the future be recognized at fair value in equity through other comprehensive income. Equity
instruments which are recognized at amortized cost are expected to be recognized at fair value in profit or loss in the future.
To implement the new rules on impairment, suitable models are being developed in particular to determine the expected loss rates for
trade accounts receivable. thyssenkrupp currently intends to apply the simplified impairment model under IFRS 9 and report lifetime
expected losses for all trade accounts receivable and contract assets. The reporting of expected losses under the new model is expected to
result in earlier recognition of impairment losses.
The Group currently assumes that all existing designated hedges meet the requirements of IFRS 9 and can be continued. It is currently
being assessed whether the hedging of components will be possible in some cases in the future. The option of reporting hedge costs in
connection with designated hedges initially in other comprehensive income will probably be used. This could further reduce the already low
hedge ineffectiveness.
In May 2014 the IASB issued the new standard IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. The purpose of the new standard on
revenue recognition is to bring together the large number of existing guidelines contained in various standards and interpretations. At the
same time it establishes uniform core principles to be applied to all industries and all types of revenue transactions. In April 2016
clarifications to IFRS 15 were issued relating mainly to the identification of separate performance obligations as well as the definition of
principal and agent.
IFRS 15 must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Group is not making use of the option for early
application of IFRS 15 but will adopt IFRS 15 for the 2018 / 2019 fiscal year beginning on October 1, 2018 (IFRS 15 effective date). The full
retrospective approach to initial application will be applied, i.e. the cumulative transition effects will be included directly in retained
earnings at the start of the comparative period on October 1, 2017. With this the Group is making use of the practical expedients provided
in IFRS 15. In this connection it is planned in particular not to restate at October 1, 2017 contracts that begin and are completed within the
same fiscal year or are completed at October 1, 2017.
In the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year the Groupwide IFRS 15 implementation project launched in 2015 focused mainly on ensuring that all IFRS 15
effects had been identified in full, carrying out training at the Group companies, and analyzing the materiality of the IFRS 15 impacts
identified as part of local implementation projects in the business areas. In this connection no significant new IFRS 15 impacts beyond the
findings of the initial impact analysis carried out in fiscal year 2015 / 2016 were identified. Overall the Group does not expect any significant
transition effects at the start of the comparative period on October 1, 2017. Based on the findings of the other analyses carried out in the
2016 / 2017 fiscal year, the following key impacts resulting from the adoption of IFRS 15 were identified or confirmed:
■ For certain business models in the automotive supply business the concretized definition of principal and agent in IFRS 15 based on the

principle of control will result in a significant and sustained reduction in reported revenue due to the extended net presentation of agent
revenue. At the same time this will have a positive impact on the reported percentage sales margin (related to adjusted EBIT) of the
Components Technology business area, which would be 0.8%-points higher at the balance sheet date September 30, 2017.
■ In the plant engineering business of the Industrial Solutions business area, the Group expects that revenue will have to be recognized

later for only a few, insignificant construction contracts currently accounted for by the percentage of completion method in accordance
with IAS 11, because the IFRS 15 criteria for revenue recognition over time are not met.

151

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

■ Especially in the Materials Services business area, depending on the Incoterms agreed with the individual customer, separate

performance obligations will have to be identified in connection with the provision of transportation and/or insurance services. Under
IFRS 15 the revenue for these services is recognized over time and not as previously at the time of delivery of the corresponding
products.
■ In cases where certain Incoterms are agreed for the supply of products to customers, control transfers to the customer under IFRS 15 in

general exists only when the products concerned are transferred to the customer. An earlier revenue recognition at the point in time at
which the significant risks and rewards are transferred to the customer is no longer sufficient for revenue recognition under IFRS 15.
Particularly in the Materials Services business area, this will mean that revenue will be recognized later in individual cases.
■ IFRS 15 requires to capitalize the costs of obtaining a contract when certain conditions are met. This will result in a slight increase in

retained earnings as of October 1, 2017 when applying the full retrospective approach to initial application.
■ The Group currently expects balance sheet extension especially as a result of the explicit requirement under IFRS 15 that due

prepayments not yet received in cash from the customer must be recognized.
In January 2016 the IASB issued the new standard IFRS 16 “Leases”, which is to replace the current lease standard IAS 17. Application of
the new standard is mandatory for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted as long as IFRS 15 is
also applied. The Group will apply IFRS 16 for the first time in the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
For the lessee a uniform accounting model applies under the new standard: For each lease a right-of-use asset and a lease liability are
recognized. Where corresponding options are exercised, exceptions apply for leases of low-value assets and leases with a term of less than
12 months. For lessors, the rules of IFRS 16 differ very little from those of IAS 17. Lessors must continue to differentiate between finance
leases and operating leases.
Most of thyssenkrupp’s leases are operating leases under which it is the lessee. The application of IFRS 16 will have the following effects
on the presentation of the Group’s financial position and earnings performance: With regard to the minimum rental payments from
operating leases reported under commitments, the adoption of the new standard will lead to an increase in non-current assets due to
recognition of rights of use. Accordingly financial debt will increase due to recognition of the corresponding liabilities. In addition the
classification of expenses from these leases will change because IFRS 16 replaces the current straight-line expenses for operating leases
with depreciation of the rights of use and interest expense for the liabilities. In addition under IFRS 16 the principal portion of lease
payments is reported under cash flows from financing activities, meaning that operating cash flow will improve.
The Group has launched a Groupwide project to implement the new standard. A reliable estimate of the quantitative impact on the
consolidated financial statements cannot yet be made. The current operating lease volume is shown in Note 20.
In addition to the standards presented above in detail, the IASB has issued further standards, interpretations and amendments to
standards and interpretations whose application is also not yet mandatory and which in part require EU endorsement before they can be
applied. Management currently assumes that the application of these standards, interpretations and amendments will not have a material
impact on the presentation of the consolidated financial statements:

152

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

■ Amendments to IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)”: “Sale

or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture”, issued in September 2014, initial application deferred
indefinitely
■ Amendments to IAS 12 “Income Taxes”: “Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses”, issued in January 2016, initial

application in fiscal year 2017 / 2018
■ Amendments to IAS 7 “Statements of Cash Flows”: “Disclosure Initiative”, issued in January 2016, initial application in fiscal year

2017 / 2018
■ Amendments to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”: “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions”, issued in

June 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal year 2018 / 2019
■ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle, issued in December 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal years

2017 / 2018 and 2018 / 2019, respectively
■ IFRIC 22: “Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration”, issued in December 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial

application in fiscal year 2018 / 2019
■ Amendments to IAS 40: “Transfers of Investment Property”, issued in December 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in

fiscal year 2018 / 2019
■ IFRIC 23: “Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments”, issued in June 2017, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal year

2019 / 2020
■ Amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, issued in October 2017, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal year

2019 / 2020
■ Amendments to IAS 28: “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”, issued in October 2017, not yet endorsed, expected initial

application in fiscal year 2019 / 2020

153

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

02 Consolidated companies and equity interests
Compensation of the scope of consolidation
The changes in the scope of consolidation in fiscal 2015 / 2016 and 2016 / 2017, respectively are presented in the table below:

AC Q U I S I T I O N S / D I V E S T I T UR E S O F B U S I N E S S E S
Number of consolidated companies

Germany

Abroad

Total

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

131

366

497

Additions

—

1

1

Disposals

(9)

(18)

(27)

122

349

471

4

26

30

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Additions
Disposals

(18)

(22)

(40)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

108

353

461

The additions in 2016 / 2017 mainly result from 14 acquisitions, while 27 of the disposals result from internal merging of Group entities. To
further details see “acquisitions and disposals” in this Note and in Note 03.
7 (prior year: 8) controlled subsidiaries are not consolidated because their combined influence on the Group’s net assets, financial position
and results of operations is not material. Their net sales amount to 0.004%, their income/(loss) before tax amounts to 0.38% and their
total equity amounts to 0.03% of the Group’s respective balances.
The Group has 12 (prior year: 10) associated companies and 13 (prior year: 15) joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting. Another 8 (prior year: 8) associated companies are not accounted for using the equity method of accounting
because their combined influence on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations is not material. The income before
tax of the immaterial associated companies amounts to 3.7% and their total equity to 0.25% of the Group’s respective balances.
A complete listing of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests is published in the German Federal Gazette and is available on the
thyssenkrupp website at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

Structrued entities
thyssenkrupp includes 4 (prior year: 4) structured entities in the consolidated financial statements. One of these structured entities is the
operating company of a leased facility for the production of coke. This operating company is the lessee under an operating lease, so
liabilities from future minimum rental payments are part of the commitments included in the consolidated financial statements. The
maximum loss risk to the Group from this facility is €61 million, resulting from the residual value guarantee – mainly transferred to third
parties – for the facility up to the end of the lease contract (cf. Note 20). Another of the structured entities is a special purpose leasing
company established to realize the second construction phase of the thyssenkrupp Quarter. The lease object and the corresponding
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements. There are no obligations to provide financial support. The two other
structured entities do not have a material influence on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations.
thyssenkrupp also has contractual relationships with 3 (prior year: 6) non-controlled structured entities. The Group holds a maximum 1%
share in these entities. One of these entities is the owner company and operating lessor of the coke production facility leased by the

154

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

thyssenkrupp Group. Under factoring programs, contractual relationships exist with a structured entity in which the company holds no
interests. The other non-controlled structured entity has a service contract with a Group company. Potential losses from these contracts are
already included in the purchasing commitments stated under commitments (cf. Note 20).

Acquisitions and disposals
Year ended September 30, 2017
At the beginning of April 2017 thyssenkrupp completed the full takeover of Atlas Elektronik after approval for the acquisition of the 49%
share held by Airbus was also given by the German government and the competition authorities. thyssenkrupp already held a 51% share in
Atlas Elektronik and managed the company together with Airbus as a joint venture, which was accounted for in the consolidated financial
statements using the equity method. Following the full acquisition, the Atlas Elektronik group is now fully consolidated.
The Atlas Elektronik group is an international maritime high-tech supplier of ships’ electronic systems and has been a technology partner
of thyssenkrupp Marine systems for many years. With the takeover the Marine Systems business of the Industrial Solutions business area
is repositioning itself as an integrated system provider and developing strategic advantages in the global market for submarines and naval
surface vessels.
Immediately before the acquisition of the remaining share, the value of the investment accounted for using the equity-method amounted to
€111 million. Following remeasurement in connection with the acquisition, this increased to €161 million taking into account the purchase
price for the 49% share; the resultant profit of €50 million is reported under other income in the consolidated statement of income. The
purchase price for the 49% share amounted to €155 million. Based on the preliminary values at the time of acquisition, the ongoing
purchase price allocation has led to an increase particularly in other intangible assets. This was the main reason preliminary goodwill,
which contains items such as know-how, decreased by €162 million to €93 million. The purchase price allocation has not yet been finalized
because the complex and customized structure of the individual projects and the large volume of information required meant that the
analysis could not yet be completed; to this extent in particular intangible assets, provisions in connection with projects, and the
corresponding goodwill are preliminary.

155

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Taking into account the not yet finalized purchase price allocation, the acquisition affected the consolidated financial statements as follows:

AC Q U I S I T I O N O F AT L A S E LE K T R O NI K G R O U P
million €

Goodwill

93

Other intangible assets

192

Property, plant and equipment (including investment property)

86

Other non-current financial assets

3

Other non-current non-financial assets

1

Deferred tax assets

13

Inventories

132

Trade accounts receivable

235

Other current financial assets

44

Other current non-financial assets

37

Current income tax assets

10

Cash and cash equivalents

167

Total assets

1,013

Accrued pension and similar obligations

176

Deferred tax liabilities

63

Other non-current financial liabilities

2

Provisions for current employee benefits

1

Other current provisions

99

Current income tax liabilities

9

Trade accounts payable

34

Other current financial liabilities

18

Other current non-financial liabilities

296

Total liabilities

697

Net assets

316

Non-controlling interest

0

Purchase price (paid via cash and fair value of equity-investment)

316

Thereof: paid in cash and cash equivalents

155

Since it was fully consolidated in the Group’s financial statements effective April 3, 2017, the Atlas Elektronik group has generated sales of
around €168 million and earnings before taxes of around €(4) million, which are contained in the consolidated income statement for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. If the acquisition had taken place instead as of October 1, 2016, the Atlas Elektronik group would
have contributed additional sales of around €196 million and earnings before taxes of around €(17) million to the Group.

156

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In the year ended September 30, 2017, the Group acquired furthermore the two Brazilian Ecosteel companies in December 2016 and
acquired additional smaller companies that are, on an individual basis, immaterial. Based on the values as of acquisition date, these
acquisitions affected in total the Group’s consolidated financial statements as presented below:

A D D I T I O N A L AC Q U I S I T I O NS
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

million €

Goodwill

14

Other intangible assets

5

Property, plant and equipment (including investment property)

31

Other non-current financial assets

20

Deferred tax assets

1

Trade accounts receivable

3

Current income tax assets

1

Cash and cash equivalents

5

Total assets

80

Deferred tax liabilities

1

Other non-current non-financial liabilities

3

Trade accounts payable

1

Other current financial liabilities

1

Other current non-financial liabilities

3

Total liabilities

9

Net assets

71

Non-controlling interest

0

Purchase prices

71

Thereof: paid in cash and cash equivalents

67

With the exception of the disposal of the Brazilian steel mill CSA Siderúrgica do Atlantico (CSA) (cf. Note 03), in fiscal year ended
September 30, 2017, the Group had only some smaller disposals that were, on an individual basis und in total, immaterial.

Year ended September 30, 2016
In fiscal year ended September 30, 2016 the Group had only some smaller acquisitions in the form of asset deals and some smaller
disposals that were, on an individual basis und in total, immaterial.

03 Discontinued operation and disposal group
Year ended September 30, 2017
As part of the Strategic Way Forward, thyssenkrupp reached agreement with Ternium on the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA as essential
part of the Steel Americas business area at the end of February 2017. After the approval of the responsible competition authorities the sale
was closed at the beginning of September 2017. The transaction meets the criteria of IFRS 5 for presentation of the Steel Americas
business area as a discontinued operation. Consequently in the current reporting period all expense and income of Steel Americas until the
disposal is reported separately in the income statement and all cash flows reported separately in the statement of cash flows; prior-period

157

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

figures are adjusted accordingly. As a result of the disposal at the beginning of September 2017, the otherwise required separate
presentation of the assets and liabilities attributable to Steel Americas in the statement of financial position is not applicable at the current
balance sheet date; under IFRS 5 an adjustment of the prior-year period of the statement of financial position is not required.
In connection with the initiated disposal, the assets and liabilities of the discontinued operation are measured at fair value less costs to
sell; this amounted to €1.5 billion (enterprise value). This resulted in an impairment loss of €808 million in accordance with IAS 36
immediately prior to the reclassification in the 2nd quarter ended March 31, 2017. Of this €8 million relates to goodwill, €1 million to other
intangible assets, €83 million to land and buildings, €555 million to technical equipment and machinery, €1 million to other assets and
€160 million to other non-financial assets. The expenses are included in the consolidated statement of income in the line “Income/(loss)
from discontinued operations (net of tax)”.
The assets and liabilities of Steel Americas business area classified as a discontinued operation are presented in the following table at the
time of disposal:

D I S CO N T I N U E D O P E R ATI O N S T E E L A M E R I C A S
million €

Intangible assets

2

Property, plant and equipment (including investment property)

1,077

Other non-financial assets

102

Deferred tax assets

16

Inventories

380

Trade accounts receivable

59

Other current financial assets

9

Other current non-financial assets

173

Cash and cash equivalents

235

Total assets disposed of

2,053

Other current provisions

185

Current income tax liabilities

1

Trade accounts payable

186

Other current financial liabilities

80

Other current non-financial liabilities

55

Total liabilities disposed of

508

Net assets disposed of

1,545

Cumulative other comprehensive income

(223)

Gain on disposal

327

Selling price

1,649

Thereof: paid in cash and cash equivalents

1,649

158

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The results of the Steel Americas business area until the disposal are as follows:

D I S CO N T I N U E D O P E R ATI O N S T E E L A M E R I C A S
million €

Net sales
Other income
Expenses

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

1,263

1,525

225

325

(1,527)

(2,880)

Ordinary income/(loss) from discontinued operations (before tax)

(39)

(1,031)

Income tax (expense)/income

(56)

(86)

Ordinary income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)

(96)

(1,117)

Gain/(loss) recognized on disposal of discontinued operations (before tax)

0

327

Income tax (expense)/income

0

(71)

Gain/(loss) recognized on disposal of discontinued operations (net of tax)

0

256

(96)

(861)

thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders

(15)

(861)

Non-controlling interest

(80)

0

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
Thereof:

Year ended September 30, 2016
At Corporate the sale was initiated at June 30, 2016 of a package of non-operation real estate located in Germany which was classified as
a disposal group under IFRS 5 and reported under “Assets held for Sale” in the statement of financial position. As of September 30, 2016
the group comprised investment property in the amount of €63 million and inventories in the amount of €2 million. Measurement of the
disposal group at fair value less cost to sell resulted in impairment losses of €5 million on investment property which were recognized in
cost of sales in the year ended September 30, 2016. In the meanwhile the transaction was consummated.

159

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position
04 Intangible assets
Changes in the Group’s intangible assets were as follows:

C H A N G E S I N I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S

million €

Franchises, trademarks and
similar rights and values as
well as licenses thereto

Development costs,
internally developed
software and website

Goodwill

Total

6,829

Gross amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015

1,736

708

4,385

Currency differences

0

1

23

25

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

7

(13)

(3)

(8)

78

54

0

132

Additions
Transfers

39

15

7

62

Disposals

(16)

(8)

(1)

(25)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

1,845

757

4,413

7,015

Currency differences

(36)

(19)

(112)

(167)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

195

1

109

306

Additions

99

64

0

163

Transfers

50

3

1

54

Disposals

(22)

(7)

0

(28)

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

(25)

0

(8)

(33)

2,104

800

4,405

7,309

2,300

Accumulated amortization and impairment losses
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015

1,161

494

645

Currency differences

3

1

1

4

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

3

(8)

0

(6)
125

Amortization expense

84

41

0

Impairment losses

5

3

0

8

Reversals of impairment losses

0

0

0

0

32

0

4

36

Transfers
Disposals
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Currency differences

(15)

(8)

0

(23)

1,273

522

650

2,445
(61)

(24)

(14)

(22)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

(1)

0

0

(1)

Amortization expense

97

39

0

136

Impairment losses

8

16

8

32

Reversals of impairment losses

0

0

0

0

Transfers

5

(3)

0

3

Disposals

(19)

(7)

0

(26)

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets held for sale

(24)

0

(8)

(32)

1,315

554

628

2,497

Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015

575

214

3,740

4,529

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

573

235

3,763

4,570

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

790

246

3,777

4,813

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017
Net amounts

160

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill impairment losses are included in other expenses.
In 2016 / 2017 an €8 million impairment loss was recorded in the Steel Americas business area outside the annual impairment test in
connection with the initiated disposal of the Brazilian steel mill CSA relating to goodwill from the acquisition of the Brazilian Ecosteel
companies within the fiscal year (cf. Note 03).

Impairment of other intangible assets
Impairment losses of intangible assets other than goodwill are included in cost of sales.
In 2016 / 2017 an €11 million impairment loss was recorded for capitalized development costs in the Camshafts business unit of the
Components Technology business area because the amount was no longer recoverable due to the absence of future cash flows.

Goodwill
Goodwill (excluding goodwill of equity method investments) has been allocated to cash generating units (CGU) of all business areas. The
recoverable amount of each cash generating unit is determined based on a value in use calculation using after-tax cash flow projections
based on bottom-up prepared financial budgets approved by thyssenkrupp AG’s management covering a three-year period. The last
budget year is generally used to determine the cash flows beyond the budget period and modified to calculate the perpetuity considering
additional assumptions. A business specific, sustained growth rate is taken into account; as a rule this growth rate amounts to 1.5%. The
weighted average cost of capital discount rate is based on a risk-free interest rate of 1.25% (prior year: 0.5%) and an unchanged market
risk premium of 6.5%. Moreover for each CGU the beta, the cost of debt and the capital structure is derived individually from the relevant
peer group. In addition CGU specific tax rates and country risk premiums are used. To discount cash flows after-tax discount rates are
applied. Based on an iterative calculation the following pre-tax discount rates are derived from the after-tax discount rates:

P R E -TA X D I S CO U N T R ATE S
Ranges
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

in %

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Components Technology

8.4 – 11.2

8.5 – 11.7

Elevator Technology

9.7 – 12.4

10.3 – 13.4

Industrial Solutions

7.4 – 11.2

9.1 – 12.9

Materials Services

5.1 – 10.2

6.2 – 10.9

7.0

7.9

10.4

8.3

Steel Europe
Corporate

The values in use for the CGUs are determined based on both historical data and expected forecast market performance. The values
assigned to the key assumptions are generally consistent with external information sources.

161

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

22 CGUs were identified in the thyssenkrupp Group, of which 17 report goodwill. Total goodwill amounts to €3,777 million as of
September 30, 2017. 70% of this goodwill relates to the CGUs Steel Europe, Americas, Europe / Africa and Marine Systems, as shown in
the following table:

S I G NI F I C A N T G O O DW I L L
Carrying amount
of goodwill
allocated to CGU
in million €

Proportion
of total
goodwill
in %

Pre-tax
discount
rate
in %

Steel Europe
(Steel Europe)

307

8%

7.9%

Americas
(Elevator
Technology)

943

25 %

Europe / Africa
(Elevator
Technology)

354

1,041

CGU
(Business Area)

Marine Systems
(Industrial
Solutions)

Growth
rate Description of key assumptions of
in % budgeting

Procedure used to determine key assumptions

1.5% – Selling prices
– Procurement prices
– Production and sales volumes
Business cycles

Internal estimates of sales and purchasing departments
concerned and consideration of economic assumptions
set by thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies

10.6%

1.5% – Procurement prices
– Exchange and interest rates

Consideration of economic assumptions set by
thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies

9%

10.3%

1.5% – Market growth rates
– Business cycles

Consideration of economic assumptions set by
thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies as well as
deduction of future demand and propensity to invest from
the current development of end-product prices

28 %

9.1%

1.5% – Market growth rates
– Realization of scheduled
measures

Consideration of long-term budget plans of potential
customers and if appropriate concrete negotiations with
customers

For none of the CGUs a goodwill impairment resulted from the annual impairment test because the recoverable amount of all CGUs was
higher than the respective carrying amount.
In the prior year the recoverable amount of the Forging & Machining CGU exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU by less than 10%. As
of September 30, 2017 the recoverable amount of each CGU exceeded the carrying amount by more than 10%.

162

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

05 Property, plant and equipment (inclusive of investment property)
Changes in the Group’s property, plant and equipment were as follows:

C H A N G E S I N P R O P E R T Y , PL A N T A N D E QU I P M E N T 1 )

million €

Land, leasehold rights and
buildings including
buildings on third-party
land

Other
Technical
equipment,
machinery and
factory and
equipment office equipment

Assets under
finance lease

Assets under
operating lease

Construction in
progress

Total

33,322

Gross amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015

6,058

23,978

2,090

144

321

731

Currency differences

15

62

1

0

1

0

79

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

28

0

1

(6)

0

2

25

Additions

51

320

130

1

0

613

1,115

Transfers

89

323

58

(1)

0

(446)

24

Disposals

(31)

(181)

(76)

(7)

(18)

(2)

(316)

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets
held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Currency differences

(7)

(1)

0

(4)

(200)

0

(212)

6,202

24,500

2,203

127

104

898

34,035
(672)

(96)

(525)

(24)

(1)

0

(25)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

13

37

20

1

0

4

75

Additions

73

490

155

5

0

674

1,397

Transfers

215

433

41

(1)

(7)

(606)

75

Disposals

(57)

(300)

(83)

(11)

(4)

(2)

(457)

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets
held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

(806)

(6,537)

(29)

(5)

0

(69)

(7,445)

5,545

18,098

2,283

115

93

875

27,009

3,536

18,988

1,644

81

96

10

24,354

6

52

1

0

0

0

59

13

(6)

0

1

0

2

9

125

758

146

9

1

0

1,040

12

59

7

1

7

1

87

0

(7)

0

0

0

0

(7)

Accumulated depreciation and impairment
losses
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015
Currency differences
Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses
Depreciation expense
Impairment losses
Reversals of impairment losses
Transfers

(21)

(81)

(4)

1

0

(5)

(111)

Disposals

(20)

(173)

(72)

(7)

(10)

(1)

(282)

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets
held for sale

(3)

(1)

0

(2)

(46)

0

(52)

3,646

19,589

1,723

84

48

7

25,098

Currency differences

(60)

(461)

(17)

(1)

0

0

(538)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

(24)

(14)

(1)

1

0

0

(38)

Depreciation expense

124

698

155

7

1

0

984

Impairment losses

85

567

5

0

2

0

659

Reversals of impairment losses

(1)

0

0

0

0

0

(1)

Transfers

27

(12)

(3)

(2)

(2)

0

8

Disposals

(38)

(274)

(76)

(10)

(2)

(1)

(401)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets
held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

(630)

(5,713)

(20)

(4)

0

0

(6,368)

3,129

14,380

1,766

75

48

7

19,403

Net amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2015

2,523

4,990

446

62

226

721

8,967

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

2,556

4,911

480

43

56

891

8,938

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

2,416

3,718

516

41

46

868

7,605

1)

Figures from Oct. 1, 2015 through Sept. 30, 2016 have been adjusted.

163

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Impairment losses of property, plant and equipment are for the most part included in cost of sales and to a minor extent in selling and
administrative expenses.
In the 2nd quarter ended March 31, 2017, the sale of the Brazilian steel mill CSA was initiated and consummated in the 4th quarter. The
transaction met the criteria of IFRS 5 for presentation of the Steel Americas business area as a discontinued operation. In connection with
the initiated disposal, the assets and liabilities of the discontinued operation were measured at fair value less costs to sell based on the
enterprise value. This resulted in impairment losses in accordance with IAS 36 immediately prior to the reclassification of €83 million to
land and buildings, €555 million to technical equipment and machinery as well as €1 million to other assets that is included in the
consolidated statement of income in the line “Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)” (cf. Note 03).
In the US and German Forging & Machining businesses of the Components Technology business area, impairment losses in the total
amount of €46 million were recognized on technical machinery and equipment in 2015 / 2016 to adjust capacities to the weak market
situation. The relevant recoverable amounts used to determine the impairment loss in each case correspond to the respective values in use
(USA: €45 million; Germany: slightly negative), which were determined applying a discount rate (after taxes) of 7.7% in the USA and 6.6%
in Germany.
Property, plant and equipment include leased land and buildings of €32 million (prior year: €29 million), technical machinery and
equipment of €6 million (prior year: €9 million) and other equipment, factory and office equipment of €3 million (prior year: €4 million) that
have been capitalized, where the terms of the lease require the Group, as lessee, to assume substantially all of the benefits and risks of
use of the leased asset (finance lease).
Property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for financial debt of €173 million (prior year: €194 million).

Investment property
Investment property located in Germany is primarily determined based on internally prepared valuations using the gross rental method
which is regulated in Germany by the “Verordnung über die Grundsätze für die Ermittlung der Verkehrswerte von Grundstücken –
(Immobilienwertermittlungsverordnung – ImmoWertV)”. Investment property located outside Germany is generally determined by external
appraisers.
As of September 30, 2017, the carrying amount of thyssenkrupp’s investment property amounts to €58 million (prior year: €66 million).
The total fair value of this investment property is €71 million (prior year: €81 million); thereof €24 million (prior year: €28 million) are
assigned to level 2 and €47 million (prior year: €53 million) are assigned to level 3 valuations methods of the fair value hierarchy. Of the
fair value €14 million (prior year: €22 million) are based on valuations of external appraisers.

06 Investments accounted for using the equity method
The investments accounted for using the equity method are, on an individual basis, immaterial. As of September 30, 2017, the carrying
amount of associates is €40 million (prior year: €41 million) and of joint ventures is €114 million (prior year: €244 million). The reduction
of the carrying amount of the joint ventures mainly results from the disposal of the 51% share in Atlas Elektronik.

164

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Summarized financial information of immaterial investments accounted for using the equity method is presented in the table below. The
information given represents the Group’s interest:

S U M M A R I ZE D F I N A N CI A L I N F O R M ATI O N O F I N V E S T MEN T S ACCO U N T E D F O R U S I N G T H E E Q U I T Y M E T H O D
Associates
million €

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)
Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income

Joint ventures

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

(26)

1

37

30

0

0

0

0

0

0

(2)

(6)

(26)

1

35

24

In 2016 / 2017, the unrecognized share of losses of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method was €3 million
(prior year: €2 million). There were cumulative unrecognized losses of €4 million (prior year: €46 million).
The associates and joint ventures are included in the list of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests that is published in the German
Federal Gazette and is available on the thyssenkrupp website at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

07 Operating lease as lessor
The Group is the lessor of various commercial real estates under operating lease agreements.
As of September 30, the future minimum lease payments to be received on non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

F U T U R E M I N I M U M L E A S E PAY M E N T S
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Not later than one year

10

8

Between one and five years

15

15

Later than five years

29

28

Total

53

51

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

1,435

1,610

08 Inventories
I N V E N TOR I E S
million €

Raw materials
Supplies
Work in process

478

438

1,377

1,399

Finished products, merchandise

3,052

3,510

Total

6,341

6,957

165

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Inventories of €15 million (prior year: €12 million) have a remaining term of more than one year. Inventories of €34,487 million (prior year:
€32,637 million) are recognized as cost of sales during the period. Included in cost of sales are write-downs of inventories of €84 million
(prior year: €146 million).

09 Trade accounts receivable
T R A D E ACCOU N T S R E C E I VA B L E
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

4,023

4,333

Trade accounts receivable (excluding construction work)
Amounts due from customers for construction work
Total

980

1,401

5,003

5,734

Receivables from the sales of goods and services in the amount of €403 million (prior year: €290 million) have a remaining term of more
than one year. As of September 30, 2017 cumulative impairment losses of €358 million (prior year: €355 million) are recognized for
doubtful accounts.
As of the reporting date trade accounts receivable were as follows:

A N A LYS I S O F S T R U C T U R E
Carrying amount

thereof:

thereof: not impaired but past due as of balance sheet date

thereof:

Trade accounts
receivable

neither impaired nor
past due as of balance
sheet date

Sept. 30, 2016

5,003

4,108

315

113

77

111

Sept. 30, 2017

5,734

4,697

372

117

79

89

million €

past due up to past due 31 to past due 61 to past due 91 to
30 days
60 days
90 days
180 days

past due 181
to 360 days

past due more
than 360 days

impaired as of balance
sheet date

76

53

150

135

107

138

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

5,763

5,291

(4,784)

(3,890)

980

1,401

Amounts due from customers for construction work are calculated as follows:

R E CE I VA B LE S F O R CO N S TR U C T I O N W OR K
million €

Contract costs incurred and recognized contract profits (less recognized losses)
Less advance payments received
Total

Sales from construction contracts of €8,410 million were recognized in the period (prior year: €8,630 million).
The Group primarily sells credit insured trade accounts receivable under existing programs on a revolving basis as well as under one-time
transactions.
The amount of receivables sold and derecognized from the balance sheet as of September 30, 2017, was €212 million (prior year: €237
million), resulting in net proceeds in the amount of €211 million (prior year: €236 million). In some cases, when the Group sells receivables
it retains rights and immaterial obligations; these retained interests mainly consist of servicing as well as providing limited cash reserve

166

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

accounts. The recognized assets and provided guarantees which serve as a cash reserve account amounted to €0 million (prior year: €0.1
million) as of September 30, 2017

10 Other financial assets
OT H E R F I N A N C I A L A S S E T S
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Sept. 30, 2017
current

non-current

current

non-current

308

16

296

15

6

28

6

28

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting

60

—

65

—

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

33

—

52

—

407

44

420

43

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets

Total

Other financial assets in the amount of €54 million (prior year: €56 million) have a remaining term of more than one year. As of
September 30, 2017 cumulative impairments amount to €9 million (prior year: €16 million) regarding current other financial assets and
€37 million (prior year: €62 million) regarding non-current other financial assets.

11 Other non-financial assets
OT H E R NO N - FI N A N CI A L A SS E T S
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Sept. 30, 2017
current

non-current

current

Advance payments on intangible assets

—

41

—

31

Advance payments on property, plant and equipment

—

169

—

158
—

Advance payments to suppliers of inventories and to other current
non-financial assets

non-current

1,605

—

1,257

Prepayments

101

—

158

—

Miscellaneous

670

234

508

18

2,376

445

1,923

207

Total

Other non-financial assets in the amount of €606 million (prior year: €879 million) have a remaining term of more than one year. As of
September 30, 2017 cumulative impairments amount to €36 million (prior year: €26 million) regarding current other non-financial assets
and €5 million (prior year: €258 million) regarding non-current other non-financial assets.

12 Total equity
Capital stock
The capital stock of thyssenkrupp AG consists of 622,531,741 (prior year: 565,937,947) no-par bearer shares of stock, all of which have
been issued and are fully paid, with 622,531,741 outstanding as of September 30, 2017 (prior year: 565,937,947). Each share of
common stock has a stated value of €2.56.

167

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

All shares grant the same rights. The stockholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at the
stockholders’ meetings.
On September 25, 2017, the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG with the approval of the Executive Committee of the Supervisory Board
resolved in accordance with the authorization under § 5, par 5 of the Articles of Association of thyssenkrupp AG to increase the capital
stock of thyssenkrupp AG by 10% by issuing 56,593,794 new no par bearer shares in thyssenkrupp AG and to exclude subscription rights.
The announced capital increase was already successfully completed in an accelerated bookbuilding process as of September 25, 2017.
The newly issued no par shares were placed with German and international institutional investors at a price of €24.30 per share. The
placement resulted in gross proceeds of €1,375 million, the transaction costs incurred were recognized directly in equity.

Additional paid-in capital
Additional paid-in capital includes the effects of the business combination of Thyssen and Krupp as well as premiums resulting from capital
increases at subsidiaries with non-controlling interest.

Retained earnings
Retained earnings include prior years’ undistributed consolidated income. In addition, this line item includes the remeasurement effects of
pensions and similar obligations.

Management of capital
As of September 30, 2017 the Group’s equity ratio was 9.7% (prior year: 7.4%) and its gearing was 57.5% (prior year: 134.2%). As in the
previous year, the gearing agreed upon was met as of September 30, 2017. Among the thyssenkrupp Group’s most important financial
goals are a sustainable appreciation of entity value and ensuring solvency at all times. Creating sufficient liquidity reserves is therefore of
great importance.
The thyssenkrupp Group’s financial risks are assessed on the basis of ratings by rating agencies:

R AT I N G
Long-term rating

Short-term rating

Outlook

BB

B

watch positive

Moody’s

Ba2

Not Prime

developing

Fitch

BB+

B

watch positive

Standard & Poor’s

Currently, all ratings are below investment grade. Achieving investment grade status with all rating agencies is a major priority for
thyssenkrupp. For the financing of the thyssenkrupp Group, an investment grade rating in the “BBB” range leads to an optimum of capital
costs. But even in the current rating situation, thyssenkrupp was able to demonstrate its access to a broad investor base by issuing a bond
in the total amount of €1,250 million (March 2017) on favorable conditions. Capital management at thyssenkrupp is based on debt ratios
published by rating agencies, which measure cash-flow-to-debt ratios for a specific period. thyssenkrupp is not subject to capital
requirements under its articles of association.

Authorizations
Through resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 30, 2015, the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG is authorized until
January 29, 2020 to acquire treasury shares up to a total of 10% of the capital stock at the time of the resolution or – if lower – at the time
the authorization is exercised and use them for the purposes expressly stated in the authorization resolution and for all legally permissible
purposes. The Executive Board is authorized under certain circumstances to exclude shareholders’ tender rights when purchasing treasury
shares or subscription rights when using treasury shares. The resolution also includes authorization to use equity derivatives (put or call

168

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

options or a combination of both) in connection with the purchase of treasury shares and to exclude tender and subscription rights. The
Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG may determine that measures of the Executive Board under these shareholder resolutions are
subject to its approval.
The following authorizations were issued by resolution of the Annual General Meeting on January 17, 2014:
In revocation of the partly used authorization to increase the capital stock issued by the Annual General Meeting on January 20, 2012, the
Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock on one or more occasions on or
before January 16, 2019 by up to €370 million by issuing up to 144,531,250 new no-par bearer shares in exchange for cash and/or
contributions in kind (authorized capital). The shareholders are in principle entitled to subscription rights. However, the Executive Board is
authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholder subscription rights in certain cases; the option of excluding
subscription rights is limited to 20% of the capital stock. § 5, par. 5 of the Articles of Association of thyssenkrupp AG has been reworded
accordingly.
The Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue once or several times bearer of registered
warrant and/or convertible bonds in the total par value of up to €2 billion with or without limited terms, and to grant to or impose on the
holders or creditors of convertible bonds conversion rights or obligations for no-par bearer shares of thyssenkrupp AG with a total share of
the capital stock up to €250 million in accordance with the conditions of these bonds. The authorization is valid until January 16, 2019.
The Executive Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights in certain
cases.
Furthermore, the Executive Board was authorized to conditionally increase the capital stock by up to €250 million by issue of up to
97,626,250 new no-par bearer shares (conditional capital). The conditional capital increase serves the granting of no-par bearer shares
upon exercise of conversion or option rights, upon fulfilment of corresponding conversion obligations or upon exercise of an option of the
thyssenkrupp AG to grant no-par shares of the thyssenkrupp AG in whole or in part instead of payment of the cash amount due to the
holders or creditors of convertible or warrant bonds that are issued by thyssenkrupp AG or a subordinate Group company against cash
contribution on or before January 16, 2019 as a result of the authorization resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting on
January 17, 2014. New shares are issued at the option or conversion price to be determined in each case according to the above
mentioned authorization resolution. A new paragraph 6 has been inserted in § 5 of the Articles of Association of thyssenkrupp AG.

Dividend
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board have agreed to propose to the Annual General Meeting a dividend in the amount of €0.15 per
share entitled to dividend to be distributed from unappropriated net income of the stand-alone entity thyssenkrupp AG for fiscal year
2016 / 2017 as determined in conformity with the principles of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and to carry forward the remaining net
income. This would result in a dividend payout of €93 million in total. A dividend of €0.15 was paid for fiscal year 2015 / 2016
(2014 / 2015: €0.15).

13 Share-based compensation
Management incentive plans
The long-term incentive plan (LTI) is a long-term oriented compensation component which issues stock rights to eligible participants. Plan
participants are Executive Board members and several other selected executive employees. As of September 30, 2017, 1,916,972 stock
rights were issued in the 5th installment, 2,495,438 stock rights in the 6th installment and 2,308,173 stock rights in the 7th installment of
the LTI.

169

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

For installments of the LTI granted inclusive of fiscal year 2013 / 2014 (inclusive of the 4th installment), the number of stock rights issued
based on individually fixed euro amounts will be adjusted at the end of each three-year tkVA performance period based on the average
thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA) over this period, beginning October 1 of the year the stock rights were granted, compared to the average
tkVA over the previous three fiscal year period. For the installments of the LTI granted beginning with fiscal year 2014 / 2015 (starting with
the 5th installment) the number of stock rights issued will be adjusted at the end of the respective three-year tkVA performance period
based on the average tkVA over this period compared with a tkVA target value set in advance. The amount of payment for an installment is
calculated by multiplying the adjusted number of stock rights by the average price of thyssenkrupp’s stock in the first three months after
the end of the tkVA performance period, with the result that the term of each installment extends over four fiscal years in total.
To determine the fair value of the stock rights used to calculate the pro-rata liability as of the balance sheet date forward prices of the
thyssenkrupp stock are calculated taking into account the existing caps. The forward calculation is carried out for predefined periods
(averaging periods) taking into account the thyssenkrupp stock price and the euro interest rate curve as of the balance sheet date and the
dividends assumed to be paid until the maturity of the stock rights. The following assumptions were used for the determination of the fair
values as of September 30, 2016 and as of September 30, 2017, respectively:

I N C E N T I V E P L A N S – Y E AR E N D E D
S E P T. 3 0 , 2 01 6
Maturity
Averaging period
thyssenkrupp stock price as of balance sheet date

4th installment LTI

5th installment LTI

Dec. 31, 2016

Dec. 31, 2017

6th installment LTI

Dec. 31, 2018

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2016

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2017

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2018

€21.22

€21.22

€21.22

€0.15 on Jan. 30, 2017

€0.15 on Jan. 30, 2017
€0.15 on Jan. 29, 2018

Assumed dividend payment(s) per stock until maturity

—

Average dividend yield

—

0.64%

0.68%

(0.36)%

(0.21)%

(0.22)%

– without caps

€21.23

€21.08

€20.92

– with caps

€19.99

€21.08

€20.92

5th installment LTI

6th installment LTI

7th installment LTI

Dec. 31, 2017

Dec. 31, 2018

Dec. 31, 2019

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2017

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2018

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2019

€25.08

€25.08

€25.08

€0.15 on Jan. 22, 2018

€0.15 on Jan. 22, 2018
€0.26 on Jan. 28, 2019

Average interest rate (averaging period)
Fair value as of Sept. 30, 2016

I N C E N T I V E P L A N S – Y E AR E N D E D
S E P T. 3 0 , 2 01 7
Maturity
Averaging period
thyssenkrupp stock price as of balance sheet date
Assumed dividend payment(s) per stock until maturity

—

Average dividend yield

—

0.54%

0.78%

(0.16)%

(0.24)%

(0.14)%

– without caps

€25.09

€24.93

€24.66

– with caps

€25.09

€24.93

€24.66

Average interest rate (averaging period)
Fair value as of Sept. 30, 2017

170

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In the 2nd quarter of 2016 / 2017, the 4th installment of the LTI was settled with a payment of €21.92 per stock right and a payment of
€84.0 million in total, respectively. In the 2nd quarter of 2015 / 2016, the 3rd installment of the LTI was settled with a payment of €18.23
per stock right and a payment of €63.4 million in total, respectively. Also in fiscal 2016 / 2017 the 7th installment of the LTI was granted to
the Executive Board and additional executive employees. In total in fiscal year 2016 / 2017 the Group recorded an expense of €46 million
from the obligations of the incentive plans (prior year: €89 million). The liability arising from the LTI amounts to €106 million as of
September 30, 2017 (prior year: €144 million).
For fiscal years 2009 / 2010 until 2013 / 2014, 25% of the performance bonus granted to the Executive Board members of
thyssenkrupp AG for each fiscal year was compulsorily converted into thyssenkrupp AG stock rights to be paid out after a three-year lockup period. The number of stock rights was calculated by dividing 25% of the performance bonus by the average thyssenkrupp share price
in the 4th quarter of the fiscal year for which the performance bonus is granted. After expiration of three fiscal years, the payout amount is
calculated by multiplying the number of stock rights by the average thyssenkrupp share price in the 4th quarter of the 3rd fiscal year. In
addition, for each stock right the dividend amount which would have been paid for these three fiscal years per share is also paid out.
Insofar as the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG were granted an additional bonus alongside the performance bonus, as in
fiscal years 2009 / 2010 until 2013 / 2014, 55% of this additional bonus was also converted into stock rights and treated in accordance
with the performance bonus model. In fiscal 2010 / 2011 the structure of the variable compensation for additional executive employees
was also modified. 20% of the performance bonus granted for the respective fiscal year will be obligatorily converted into thyssenkrupp AG
stock rights to be paid out after the expiration of three fiscal years based on the average thyssenkrupp share price in the 4th quarter of the
3rd fiscal year. Effective as of fiscal 2014 / 2015, the compensation system of the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG has been
adjusted in such a way that stock rights are no longer granted for a portion of the current variable compensation. For further selected
executives this was the last conversion into stock rights, which was finally discontinued from fiscal year 2015 / 2016. In 2016 / 2017 the
Group recorded expenses of €1 million (prior year: €3 million) associated with this compensation component; the resultant obligation as of
September 30, 2017 amounts to €8 million (prior year: €12 million). In 2016 / 2017 a payment of €5 million occurred relating to the stock
rights granted in 2012 / 2013 (prior year: €3 million).

14 Accrued pension and similar obligations
ACC R UE D PE N S I O N A ND SI M I L AR OB L I G AT I O N S
million €

Accrued pension obligations
Partial retirement
Other accrued pension-related obligations
Total

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

8,534

7,684

178

193

43

46

8,754

7,924

Accrued pension liability
The Group maintains defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that mainly cover employees in Germany, the USA,
Great Britain and Liechtenstein and represent approx. 95% of the thyssenkrupp Group’s total pension obligations, so the information below
mainly applies to the above-mentioned countries. In some other countries, eligible employees also receive benefits in accordance with the
respective local requirements.
For historical reasons a wide variety of voluntary defined benefit pension plans (DB plans) exist in Germany based on different risk profiles.
As a rule they provide benefits in the event of invalidity and/or death or on reaching a specified age limit, and are mainly based on
individual or collective arrangements. In the past the employer-funded pension plans in Germany generally provided a life-long pension
based on defined benefits.

171

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

These defined benefit plans (including final-salary pension plans, career-average pension plans, etc.) were created many years ago and
replaced at the turn of the millennium by defined contribution pension plans with a risk-optimized payout form (lump sum, installments, or
life-long pension). Particularly for newly recruited professionals and managers, the “flexplan” was introduced at January 1, 2017 and
replaces the last open “benefits plan” at thyssenkrupp. The “flexplan” is a share-based pension plan in which a minimum of 1% interest is
guaranteed by thyssenkrupp.
A key element in increasing employees’ share in responsibility for their company retirement benefits is salary conversion, which is an
option under all pension schemes currently open and for which employer-funded matching contributions are offered as an incentive.
With regard to the funding of the company pension plans, particularly the “flexplan” is to be funded through the Group’s Contractual Trust
Agreement (CTA), which will have a positive effect on the external funding level. At the same time payments under the former pension
plans are funded through the CTA insofar as they exceed the protection limits of the mutual pension guarantee association
(Pensionssicherungsverein a.G. (PSV)).
The majority of Group companies outside Germany also provide pension plans for their employees. These plans are in some cases based
on statutory requirements or collective agreements, but in other cases they are provided by the Group companies on a voluntary basis. The
range of benefits provided under the plans differs widely depending on local arrangements, extending from DC plans to final-salary
defined-benefit schemes with regular pension payment.
Outside Germany pension obligations mainly exist in the form of DB plans in the USA, Great Britain, and Liechtenstein. Under statutory
requirements in Liechtenstein, pension plans have to be offered to all employees in the mandatory social insurance scheme and are
therefore also available to new employees of thyssenkrupp. By contrast, the mainly voluntary DB plans offered in Great Britain and the USA
have now been closed to new employees and as far as possible frozen in respect of future service years. This means that the obligations
under the DB plans relate mainly to the vested rights of former employees and pensioners. As a rule all active employees in Great Britain
and the majority of employees in the USA now only accrue company benefit rights under DC plans.
To secure the payment obligations, the pension funds outside Germany are funded to a much greater extent by externally separated
assets. This is due in part to legal minimum funding standards, which require full external funding of the obligations or a financing under a
capital funding system. For further information regarding the composition and investment strategy refer to the disclosures of the plan
assets.
Material risks associated with the different types of pension plans include above all financial risks as well as risks in the areas of inflation
and biometrics.
Inflation risks which could lead to an increase in benefit obligations exist because some of the plans are based on (final) salary and in
some cases annual pension modules are directly linked to current salaries (defined contribution plans). To this extent a rise in salaries
above the salary/career trends assumed in the valuation of the obligation would also require a direct increase in the provisions (past
service effect in the case of (final) salary pensions) or the future service cost (defined contribution plans).
In addition, further charges could result from the need for a cost-of-living adjustment in excess of the assumed pension trend during the
pension payment phase, which would lead to an immediate increase in the provisions. A significant number of the pension plans in

172

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Germany are required by law to provide a cost-of-living adjustment. A cost-of-living adjustment may also be required under (collective
bargaining) agreements or agreed on a voluntary/discretionary basis.
Biometric risks can result either from early benefit claims (risk of sudden changes to the balance sheet after death or invalidity) or from
underestimated life expectancies (longevity risk) and could likewise result in costs to the company due to unexpected increases in
provisions and early cash outflows.
Risks from changes to the discount rate are purely balance sheet-related, i.e. the provisions are adjusted directly against equity without
affecting income. Cash outflows are not affected.
Under the pension plans in Germany, individual beneficiaries are in part counted more than once due to entitlements under different
components of the pension systems. The breakdown of total of pension plans is as follows:

B R E A K D OW N O F T H E TOTA L O F P E N S I ON P L A N S BY B E NE F I CI AR I E S
Sept. 30, 2016

Active employees
Terminated employees with vested benefits

Sept. 30, 2017

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

109,906

28,108

138,014

115,062

27,704

142,766

22,212

6,290

28,502

22,669

4,746

27,415

Pensioners

118,632

12,583

131,215

115,164

12,333

127,497

Total

250,750

46,981

297,731

252,895

44,783

297,678

173

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Changes in defined benefit obligations and plan assets
The reconciliation of the changes in the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets are as follows:

C H A N G E I N DE F I NE D B E N E F I T O B LI G ATI O N S A N D P L AN A S S E T S
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Sept. 30, 2017

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Change in defined benefit obligations (DBO):
DBO at beginning of fiscal year

7,059

2,621

9,680

7,999

2,879

10,878

Service cost

117

51

168

153

57

210

Interest expense

170

76

246

102

55

157

(2)

(30)

(31)

(35)

32

(3)

Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from experience adjustments
Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in demographic
assumptions

0

(14)

(14)

(2)

(48)

(50)

1,096

398

1,495

(569)

(150)

(719)

Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)

3

(1)

2

0

0

0

Settlements

0

0

0

0

(21)

(21)

Currency differences

0

(101)

(101)

0

(108)

(108)

Participant contributions

0

18

18

1

19

20

(445)

(141)

(587)

(404)

(128)

(532)

0

(1)

(1)

(1)

(82)

(83)
170

Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in financial assumptions

Benefit payments
Settlement payments
Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

2

2

169

0

Others

0

2

2

0

0

0

7,999

2,879

10,878

7,414

2,505

9,920

197

2,100

2,297

185

2,163

2,348

Interest income

5

63

68

3

43

45

Remeasurement: Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets, excluding amounts
included in interest income

1

159

160

12

37

49

Currency differences

0

(105)

(105)

0

(86)

(86)

Employer contributions

0

72

72

24

82

105

Participant contributions

0

18

18

1

19

20

(19)

(135)

(154)

0

(121)

(121)

Settlement payments

0

(1)

(1)

0

(82)

(82)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

0

0

1

0

1

Administration cost

0

(7)

(7)

0

(9)

(9)

185

2,163

2,348

225

2,046

2,271

DBO at end of fiscal year
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of fiscal year

Benefit payments

Fair value of plan assets at end of fiscal year

As of the balance sheet date, defined benefit obligations of €9,920 million (prior year: €10,878 million) in total related to plans that
are wholly unfunded in the amount of €6,597 million (prior year: €7,187 million) and to plans that are wholly or partly funded in the
amount of €3,323 million (prior year: €3,691 million).
The settlements relate mainly to the replacement of a DB plan for the active workforce and simultaneous transition to a DC plan as well as
settlements of vested pension rights of former employees in the USA.

174

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Change of net defined liability
The net defined benefit liability changed as follows:

CHANGE IN NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Net defined benefit liability at beginning of fiscal year
Service cost plus net interest income/(expense)
Remeasurements

Sept. 30, 2017

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

6,862

541

7,403

7,814

716

8,530

282

64

347

253

69

322

1,093

178

1,271

(618)

(204)

(822)
(22)

Currency differences

0

3

3

0

(22)

Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)

3

(1)

2

0

0

0

Settlements

0

0

0

0

(21)

(21)

Employer contributions

0

(72)

(72)

(24)

(82)

(105)
(411)

Benefit payments

(427)

(6)

(433)

(404)

(7)

Settlement payments

0

0

0

(1)

0

(1)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

2

2

168

0

168

Administration cost

0

7

7

0

9

9

Others

0

1

1

0

0

0

7,814

716

8,530

7,189

460

7,649

7,814

720

8,534

7,189

495

7,684

0

(3)

(3)

0

(36)

(36)

Net defined benefit liability at end of fiscal year
thereof: accrued pension liability
thereof: other non-financial assets

Other non-financial assets include an asset ceiling of €0 million (prior year: €1 million).

Net periodic pension cost
The net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit plans were as follows:

N E T P E R I O D I C P E N S I O N CO S T
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Germany

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017
Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Service cost

117

51

168

153

57

210

Net interest cost

165

14

179

99

12

112

Administration cost

0

7

7

0

9

9

Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)

3

(1)

2

0

0

0

Settlement loss/(gain)

0

0

0

0

(21)

(21)

286

70

356

253

58

311

Net periodic pension cost

Assumptions
The assumptions for discount rates, the rates of compensation increase and the rates of pension progression on which the calculation of
the obligations is based were derived in accordance with standard principles and established for each country as a function of their
respective economic conditions. Discount rates are generally determined based on market yields of AA-rated corporate bonds of
appropriate term and currency. As of September 30, 2017, the discount rate for pension obligations in Germany was 1.90%, compared

175

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

with 1.30% in the prior year, with the discount rate rising to 1.8% at the end of the 2016 calendar year and remaining relatively stable for
the rest of the fiscal year.
The Group applied the following weighted average assumptions to determine benefit obligation:

W E I G H T E D AV E R AG E A S S U M P T I O N S
Sept. 30, 2016
in %

Discount rate

Sept. 30, 2017

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

1.30

1.78

1.41

1.90

2.29

2.00

Rate of compensation increase

2.50

1.27

2.25

2.50

1.37

2.27

Rate of pension progression

1.50

1.52

1.50

1.50

1.51

1.50

Accrued pensions in Germany are recognized on the basis of the “2005 G tables” of Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck, with modifications for certain
beneficiary groups to take into account a longer life expectancy. In the other countries the following biometric tables were generally used:
USA: Modified version of the RP-2014 Mortality Base Table and MP-2014 Mortality Projection Scale, Great Britain: Series Tables adjusted
to the CMI2016 Model, and Liechtenstein: BVG2015 Gen.
Alternative assumptions (in each case weighted-average rate of all domestic and foreign pension obligations) would result in the following
changes in the defined benefit obligation and the corresponding reverse changes in equity. The table shows the effects of the change in
one assumption with all other assumptions remaining unchanged:

S E N S I T I VI T Y A N A LYS I S
Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Change of defined benefit obligation (€ million)

Discount rate

Increase by 0.5 percentage points
Decrease by 0.5 percentage points

Rate of compensation increase

Rate of pension progression

Mortality probability

Change of defined benefit obligation (€ million)

Germany

Outside Germany

Germany

Outside Germany

(514)

(211)

(443)

(177)

549

228

484

190

Increase by 0.5 percentage points

19

16

15

15

Decrease by 0.5 percentage points

(19)

(16)

(15)

(15)

Increase by 0.25 percentage points

181

28

157

26

Decrease by 0.25 percentage points

(177)

(28)

(154)

(25)

Decrease by 10.0 percentage points

294

110

260

100

To test the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation due to a change in the mortality and life expectancy assumptions, an alternative
analysis was carried out on the basis of 10% lower mortality probabilities from retirement age. For beneficiaries currently aged 63 to 65,
this roughly corresponds to a one year increase in life expectancy on entering retirement.

176

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Plan assets
In the Group, the majority of reported plan assets associated with the funded pension plans are located in the USA, Great Britain and to a
lesser extent in Germany and some other European countries. The Group invests in diversified portfolios consisting of an array of asset
classes that attempt to maximize returns while minimizing volatility. The asset classes mainly include national and international stocks,
fixed income government and non-government securities, real estate and shares in highly diversified funds. Plan assets do not include any
direct investments in thyssenkrupp debt securities, treasury shares or real estate used on its own.
The Group uses professional investment managers to invest plan assets based on specific investment guidelines. The Investment
Committees of the respective plan consist of senior financial management especially from treasury and other appropriate executives. The
Investment Committees meet regularly to review the risks and performance of the major assets and approve the selection and retention of
external managers.
For the Group’s main pension assets, regular asset liability studies are also carried out, in which actuaries conduct a detailed analysis of
the structure of the pension obligations (among other things in terms of age structure, duration, possible interest rate/inflation risks). On
this basis the investment strategy and target portfolio of the pension assets are then defined and updated. For risk management purposes,
liability-driven investment strategies may be used through which assets are geared towards the pension liabilities.
The processes established for managing and monitoring the plan assets as described above are used to counter the usual risks associated
with capital market investment – counterparty, liquidity/market and other risks.
As described above, the major pension obligations exist in Germany, the USA, Great Britain and Liechtenstein. The plan assets in these
countries amount to 84% of the total plan assets as of September 30, 2017 (prior year: 84%). As of the balance sheet date the portfolio of
these major plan assets comprises the following asset categories:

A S S E T A L L O C AT I O N O F MA J O R P L A N A S S E T S
Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017
Fair value (€ million)

Fair value (€ million)

Asset categories

No quoted
Quoted market market price in
price in an
an active
Total active market
market

Equity securities

683

665

18

34

697

676

21

37

1,040

1,040

0

52

948

945

3

50

52

52

0

3

44

44

0

2

206

154

52

10

217

165

52

11

1,981

1,911

70

100

1,906

1,830

76

100

Bonds
Cash and cash equivalents
Others
Total

Portion of
major plan
assets
(in %)

Quoted market
price in an
Total active market

No quoted
market price
in an active
market

Portion of
major plan
assets
(in %)

In general, the Group’s funding policy is to contribute amounts to the plans sufficient to meet the minimum statutory funding requirements
relevant in the country in which the plan is located. In the USA, minimum funding is partially based on collective bargaining agreements.
The Group may from time to time make additional contributions at its own discretion. thyssenkrupp’s expected contribution in fiscal year
2017 / 2018 is €58 million (prior year: €96 million) related to its plan assets.

177

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Pension benefit payments
In fiscal year 2016 / 2017, pension benefit payments for plans in Germany of €404 million (prior year: €445 million) were mainly from
provisions, and pension benefit payments for non-German plans of €128 million (prior year: €141 million) were made mainly from plan
assets. The estimated future pension benefits to be paid by the Group’s defined benefit pension plans are as follows:

E S T I M ATE D FU T U R E P E N S I O N B E N E F I T PAY M E N T S
million €

Germany

Outside Germany

Total

2017/2018

448

123

571

2018/2019

418

121

539

2019/2020

417

123

540

2020/2021

413

123

537

2021/2022

406

125

531

2022/2023 – 2026/2027

1,935

628

2,563

Total

4,038

1,243

5,281

(for fiscal year)

The duration of defined benefit plans amounts to 13 years for Germany (prior year: 13 years) and to 15 years (prior year: 16 years) for the
other countries.

Defined contribution plans (DC Plans)
The Group also maintains domestic and foreign defined contribution plans. Amounts contributed by the Group under such plans are based
upon percentage of the employees’ salary or the amount of contributions made by the employees. The total cost of pension plans
accounted for as defined contribution plans in the current fiscal year was €162 million (prior year: €161 million). In addition, contributions
paid to public/state pension insurance institutions amounted to €644 million (prior year: €625 million).

Partial retirement
In particular German companies have obligations resulting from partial retirement agreements. Under these agreements, employees work
additional time prior to retirement, which is subsequently paid for in installments after retirement. In addition, employees receive a
supplement on top of their pay. For these obligations, accruals were recognized in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.

178

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

15 Provisions for employee benefits and other provisions
P R OV I S I O N S F O R E M P L OY E E B E N E FI T S A N D OT H E R PR OV I SI O N S

Employee
benefits

Product
warranties
and product
defects

Other
contractual
costs

Restructuring

Decommissioning
obligations

Others

Total

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

781

470

102

196

259

525

2,333

Currency differences

(11)

(11)

(3)

(1)

0

(10)

(37)

7

(2)

3

(2)

0

159

165

793

130

119

300

8

304

1,653

million €

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses
Additions
Accretion

3

0

0

0

13

1

17

Amounts utilized

(761)

(65)

(83)

(134)

(6)

(188)

(1,237)

Reversals

(100)

(109)

(38)

(7)

(2)

(98)

(354)

Reclassification due to the presentation as liabilities associated with
assets held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017

0

0

0

0

0

(1)

(1)

711

413

101

353

270

691

2,539

As of September 30, 2017, €1,540 million (prior year: €1,371 million) of the total of provisions for employee benefits and other provisions
are current, while €999 million (prior year: €963 million) are non-current. Provisions of €1,162 million (prior year: €1,117 million) have a
remaining term of more than one year.
Provisions for employee compensation and benefit costs primarily represent employment anniversary bonuses and obligations for the
management incentive plans, while social plan and related costs pertaining to personnel related structural measures are reflected in the
provision for restructuring activities. Pension related obligations for partial retirement agreements and early retirement programs, partly
resulting from restructurings, are part of the provision for pensions and similar obligations.
Product warranties and product defects represent the Group’s responsibility for the proper functioning of the goods sold (product warranty)
as well as the obligation that arise from the use of the products sold (product defect).
Provisions for other contractual costs represent pending losses from uncompleted contracts.
The provision for restructurings consists of provisions for employee termination benefits and exit costs which have been established by
operating divisions for costs incurred in connection with activities which do not generate any future economic benefits for the Group. With
the exemption of Steel Americas restructurings are being carried out in all business areas The additions to restructuring provisions in the
fiscal year in the amount of €300 million in total consists of €105 million within the Industrial Solutions business area, €89 million within
the Elevator Technology business area, €42 million within the Components Technology business area, €31 million within the Materials
Services business area and €26 million within the Steel Europe business area.
The provision for decommissioning obligations mainly consists of obligations associated with mining activities and recultivating landfills.
Obligations associated with mining activities and recultivating landfills are generally handled over long periods of time, in some cases more
than 30 years. The technical parameters are very complex. As a result, uncertainty exists with regard to the timing and concrete amount of
the expenses.

179

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Other provisions include provisions for litigation risks, environmental obligations and other risks from individual items not allocable to other
positions. Provisions for the following items are included:
Claims for damages have been filed both in and out of court against thyssenkrupp AG and companies of the thyssenkrupp Group by
potential injured parties in connection with the elevator cartel. A part of the claims has not yet been quantified. The court proceedings are
pending in Germany, Belgium, Austria and the Netherlands and are at various stages; in part proceedings have already been settled or the
actions have been withdrawn or dismissed. For the part of the claims thyssenkrupp assesses will probably result in cash outflows,
thyssenkrupp has recognized provisions for risks.
In connection with the rail cartel, which concerned prohibited cartel agreements in the period 2001-2011 with regard to the supply of rails,
sleepers and turnouts to private companies, including construction companies and companies operating private rail operations as well as
local transport authorities (the so-called “private market”), various companies, particularly local transport services, have also asserted or
announced damage claims in or mostly out of court as potential injured parties. Proceedings are at various stages; in part proceedings
have already been settled or otherwise brought to an end. thyssenkrupp has recognized provisions for the damage claims.

16 Financial debt
F I N A N C I A L DE B T
Carrying amounts in million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

5,019

4,670

Loan notes

326

252

Liabilities to financial institutions

537

154

Bonds

Finance lease liabilities

24

20

250

230

Non-current financial debt

6,157

5,326

Bonds

1,249

1,599

Other loans

Loan notes

5

75

175

231

Acceptance payables

3

11

Finance lease liabilities

9

6

13

8

Current financial debt

1,455

1,930

Financial debt

7,611

7,255

Liabilities to financial institutions

Other loans

Current financial debt includes financial debt with a remaining term up to one year, while the non-current financial debt has a remaining
term of more than one year.
Financial debt in the amount of €173 million (prior year: €194 million) is collateralized by real estate.
As of September 30, 2017, the financial debt reflects a total discount in the amount of €33 million (prior year: €34 million), which is offset
by a total premium in the amount of €0 million (prior year: €1 million). Amortization of discounts and premiums of financial debt is included
in “financial income/(expense), net”.

180

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

B O N D S AN D LOA N N OT E S
Carrying
Carrying
Notional
amount in
amount in
amount in
million €
million €
million €
as of
as of
as of
Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017 Sept. 30, 2017

Fair value in
million €
Interest rate
as of
in % Sept. 30, 2017

Maturity

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,250 million) 2012/2017

1,250

—

—

—

—

02/28/2017

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,600 million) 2013/2018

1,597

1,599

1,600

4.0000

1,654

08/27/2018

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,250 million) 2014/2019

1,242

1,244

1,250

3.1250

1,316

10/25/2019

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€750 million) 2015/2020

744

746

750

1.7500

777

11/25/2020

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€600 million) 2015/2025

592

593

600

2.5000

640

02/25/2025

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€850 million) 2016/2021

844

845

850

2.7500

905

03/08/2021

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,250 million) 2017/2022

—

1,242

1,250

1.3750

1,264

03/03/2022

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€70 million) 2012/2017

69

70

70

3.5500

72

10/02/2017

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€8 million) 2014/2018

8

8

8

2.2500

8

12/30/2018

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€4 million) 2014/2019
thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€100 million) 2015/2018
thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€145 million) 2016/2021
Total

4

4

4

2.5000

4

12/30/2019

100

100

100

0.9310

101

12/14/2018

1.7500

149

03/11/2021

150

145

145

6,600

6,596

6,627

6,890

In March 2017 thyssenkrupp AG issued a bond with a volume of €1,250 million with a maturity of five years and a coupon of 1.375% p.a.
under its €10 billion debt issuance program.
As of September 30, 2017, the financing structure of liabilities to financial institutions and other loans comprise the following:

L I A B I L I T I E S TO F I N A N CI A L I N S T I T U T I O NS A N D OT H E R L OA N S
Carrying
Carrying
amount in
amount in
million €
million €
as of
as of
Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017

Weighted
average
interest rate
in %
thereof
as of
in € Sept. 30, 2017

Fair value in
thereof
million €
in other
as of
currencies Sept. 30, 2017

Credits at variable interest rates

494

220

139

2.2

81

220

Credits at fixed interest rates

481

403

206

5.1

197

487

Total

975

623

345

3.9

278

707

Under a syndicated joint credit multi-currency facility agreement, thyssenkrupp has access to funds of €2.0 billion with variable interest
rates. The facility, which has a term until March 14, 2021, was not utilized as of the balance sheet date.
In addition to the syndicated joint credit multi-currency-facility agreement there are revolving credit agreements of €1.8 billion in total with
banking institutions whereby thyssenkrupp AG or in part thyssenkrupp Finance USA, Inc. can borrow in euros, U.S. dollars or in British
pounds Sterling. As of September 30, 2017, the credit agreements were not drawn.
In total the Group has available unused, committed credit lines amounting to €3.8 billion.
The Group’s Commercial Paper Program also provides up to €1.5 billion in additional financing. Commercial papers are debt instruments
which can be issued under our program with a term of up to 364 days depending on investor demand. As of September 30, 2017, the
program was not used.

181

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Maturity of financial debt is as follows:

M AT U R I T Y O F F I N A N C I A L D E B T

Total financial debt

Thereof:
Liabilities to financial
institutions

2017/2018

1,930

231

2018/2019

161

35

2019/2020

1,287

16

2020/2021

1,756

27

2021/2022

1,363

13

758

63

7,255

385

million € (for fiscal year)

nach 2021/2022
Total

17 Trade accounts payable
Trade accounts payable in the amount of €399 million (prior year: €288 million) have a remaining term of more than one year.

18 Other financial liabilities
OT H E R F I N A NC I A L L I AB I L I TI E S
Sept. 30, 2016
million €

Sept. 30, 2017
current

non-current

current

non-current

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

748

221

751

182

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting

163

—

59

—

63

—

33

—

975

221

842

182

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Total

Other financial liabilities amounting to €184 million (prior year: €228 million) have a remaining term of more than one year.

182

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

19 Other non-financial liabilities
OT H E R NO N - FI N A N CI A L L I AB I LI T I E S
Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

million €

current

non-current

current

non-current

Amounts due to customers for construction work

3,638

—

3,359

—

Advance payments

1,087

—

991

—

864

—

839

—

Liabilities due to put options

15

0

16

0

Liabilities to the employees

841

—

871

—

Liabilities for social security

95

—

133

—

Deferred income

44

—

45

—

Tax liabilities (without income taxes)

260

—

290

—

Miscellaneous

285

6

258

5

7,130

6

6,802

5

Selling and buying market related liabilities

Total

Other non-financial liabilities amounting to €2,518 million (prior year: €2,328 million) have a remaining term of more than one year.
Amounts due to customers for construction work are calculated as follows:

L I A B I L I T I E S FO R CON S T R UC T I O N WO R K
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Contract costs incurred and recognized contract profits (less recognized losses)
Less advance payments received

Sept. 30, 2017

10,250

6,326

(13,889)

(9,686)

(3,638)

(3,359)

Total

20 Contingencies and commitments
Contingencies
thyssenkrupp AG as well as, in individual cases, its subsidiaries have issued or have had guarantees issued in favour of customers or
lenders. The following table shows obligations under guarantees where the principal debtor is not a consolidated Group company:

CO N T I N G E N CI E S
Maximum potential amount of future
payments as of
million €

Provision as of

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Advance payment bonds

154

33

1

1

Performance bonds

133

2

2

0

61

61

12

15

Residual value guarantees
Other guarantees
Total

183

75

7

0

0

423

103

15

16

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The significant decrease of contingencies is connected with the first-time consolidation of the Atlas Elektronic group as of April 03, 2017.
Guarantees include contingent liabilities of joint ventures of €0 million (prior year: €337 million). Contingent liabilities of joint ventures
include €0 million (prior year: €148 million) that apply to the shares of the other joint venturers.
The terms of these guarantees depend on the type of guarantee and may range from three months to ten years (e.g. rental payment
guarantees).
The basis for possible payments under the guarantees is the non-performance of the principal debtor under a contractual agreement, e.g.
late delivery, delivery of non-conforming goods under a contract, non-performance with respect to the warranted quality or default under a
loan agreement.
All guarantees are issued by or issued by instruction of thyssenkrupp AG or subsidiaries upon request of the principal debtor obligated by
the underlying contractual relationship and are subject to recourse provisions in case of default. Is such a principal debtor is a company
owned fully or partially by a foreign third party, such third party is generally requested to provide additional collateral in a corresponding
amount.
thyssenkrupp bears joint and several liability as a member of certain civil law partnerships, ordinary partnerships and consortiums.
thyssenkrupp has contingencies for the following material legal disputes:
In connection with the majority interest previously held by the Industrial Solutions business area in the Greek shipyard Hellenic Shipyards
(HSY) and the construction of submarines for the Greek Navy, the Greek government has filed legal and arbitration actions to claim
compensation of €2.1 billion and reimbursement of a €115 million installment payment from thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG and
thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH as well as from HSY and the current majority shareholder of HSY. To date the Greek government has
concretized claims only in a double-digit million euro amount, relating exclusively to its contract with HSY. The claims asserted against the
thyssenkrupp companies appear unfounded. All contractual obligations of thyssenkrupp Marine Systems and other thyssenkrupp
companies vis-à-vis the Greek government have been fulfilled since 2010.
In addition further legal and arbitration actions and official investigations and proceedings as well as claims have been filed against
thyssenkrupp companies or may be initiated or filed in the future. Disputes in connection with the acquisition or disposal of companies or
company units which may lead to partial repayment of the purchase price or to the payment of damages or to tax charges. Furthermore,
damage claims may be payable to contractual partners, customers, consortium partners and subcontractors under performance contracts.
Predicting the progress and results of lawsuits involves considerable difficulties and uncertainties. This means that lawsuits, official
investigations and proceedings as well as claims not disclosed separately could also individually or together with other legal disputes,
official investigations and proceedings as well as claims have a negative and also potentially major future impact on the Group’s net
assets, financial position and results of operations. However, at present thyssenkrupp does not expect pending lawsuits, official
investigations and proceedings as well as claims not explained separately in this section to have a major negative impact on the Group’s
net assets, financial position and results of operations.

184

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Commitments and other contingencies
The Group is the lessee to property, plant and equipment classified as operating leases. Rental expense amounting to €340 million (prior
year: €354 million) resulting from rental contracts, long-term leases and leasing contracts classified as operating leases, comprises as
follows:

E X PE N S E R E SU LT I N G F R O M O P E R AT I NG L E A S E CO N T R AC T S
million €

Minimum rental payments
Contingent rentals
less income from sublease agreements
Total

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

354

334

2

8

(2)

(1)

354

340

The future minimum rental payments, excluding accrued interest from such non-cancellable contracts that have an initial or remaining term
of more than one year as of the balance sheet date are (at face amounts):

F U T U R E M I N I M U M L E A S E PAY M E N T S
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Not later than one year

284

211

Between one and five years

462

429

Later than five years

110

93

Total

857

734

The commitment to enter into investment projects amounts to €396 million (prior year: €551 million) as of September 30, 2017 and
relates mainly to property, plant and equipment of the Components Technology and Steel Europe business areas.
Payment commitments and obligations to make further contributions to corporations and cooperative associations exist in the total amount
of €11 million (prior year: €42 million). In addition, other financial commitments exist in the amount of €1,713 million (prior year: €2,692
million), primarily from the commitments to purchase lime under long term supply contracts as well as purchasing commitments resulting
from the Group’s electricity and gas supply contracts. In addition, in the Steel Europe business area long term iron ore and iron ore pellets
supply contracts exist which will result in purchasing commitments over a period of up to three years. Due to the high volatility of iron ore
prices, the measurement of the complete purchasing commitments is based on the iron ore price as of the current balance sheet date
resulting in purchasing commitments of €2,136 million (prior year: €7,127 million in total; of this €4,761 million related to the Steel
Americas business area).
Based on the risk bearing ability of the Group or the Group companies, there exist adequate deductibles in the various classes of
insurance. One or more damages at these units could impact the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations.

185

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

21 Financial instruments
The following table shows financial assets and liabilities by measurement categories and classes. Finance lease receivables and liabilities,
and derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are also included although they are not part of any IAS 39 measurement category.

F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6
Measurement
in accordance
with IAS 17

Measurement in accordance with IAS 39

million €

Trade accounts receivable (excluding finance lease)

Carrying
amount on
balance sheet
as of Sept. 30,
2016

(Amortized)
cost

5,001

5,001

Loans and receivables

Fair value
recognized in
profit or loss

Fair value
recognized in
Fair value as of
equity Amortized cost Sept. 30, 2016

5,001

5,001

Finance lease receivables

5,001

1

Other financial assets

451

Loans and receivables

1
340

60

51

324

Available-for-sale financial assets

324

16

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

18

34

60

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

0

Cash and cash equivalents

4,105

Loans and receivables
Total of financial assets

1
451

60
33

33

4,105

4,105

4,105

4,105

9,559

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Loans and receivables

9,431

9,431

Available-for-sale financial assets

34

16

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

60

Financial debt (excluding finance lease)

7,578

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Finance lease liabilities

33

Trade accounts payable

5,119

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

9,431
18
60

60

7,578

7,919

7,578

7,919
33

5,119

1,196

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

970

5,119
165

62

970

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

2

Total of financial liabilities

1,196
970

163

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

33
5,119

5,119

Other financial liabilities

34

163
62

63

13,927

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

13,667

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

163

186

13,667

14,008
163

163

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 7
Measurement
in accordance
with IAS 17

Measurement in accordance with IAS 39
Carrying
amount on
balance sheet
as of
Sept. 30, 2017

million €

Trade accounts receivable (excluding finance lease)

5,733

Loans and receivables
Finance lease receivables

(Amortized)
cost

Fair value
recognized in
profit or loss

Fair value
recognized in
Fair value as of
equity Amortized cost Sept. 30, 2017

5,733

5,733

5,733

5,733

1

Other financial assets

463

Loans and receivables

1
326

85

52

312

Available-for-sale financial assets

312

15

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

65

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

20

Cash and cash equivalents

5,292

Loans and receivables
Total of financial assets

1
463

20

34

32

52

65

5,292

5,292

5,292

5,292

11,489

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Loans and receivables

11,337

11,337

Available-for-sale financial assets

34

15

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

65

Financial debt (excluding finance lease)

7,230

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Finance lease liabilities

25

Trade accounts payable

5,729

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

11,337
20
65

65

7,230

7,608

7,230

7,608
25

5,729

1,024

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

932

5,729
70

22

932

1,024
932

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

59

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

10

Total of financial liabilities

25
5,729

5,729

Other financial liabilities

34

59
22

33

14,009

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

13,892

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

59

13,892

14,270
59

59

The carrying amounts of trade accounts receivable, other current receivables as well as cash and cash equivalents equal their fair values.
The fair value of loans equals the present value of expected cash flows which are discounted on the basis of interest rates prevailing on the
balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets primarily include equity and debt instruments. They are in general measured at fair value, which is based
to the extent available on market prices as of the balance sheet date. When no quoted market prices in an active market are available and
the fair value cannot be reliably measured, equity instruments are measured at cost.

187

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The fair value of foreign currency forward transactions is determined on the basis of the middle spot exchange rate applicable as of the
balance sheet date, and taking account of forward premiums or discounts arising for the respective remaining contract term compared to
the contracted forward exchange rate. Common methods for calculating option prices are used for foreign currency options. The fair value
of an option is influenced not only by the remaining term of an option, but also by other factors, such as current amount and volatility of
the underlying exchange or base rate.
Interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are measured at fair value by discounting expected cash flows on the basis of market
interest rates applicable for the remaining contract term. In the case of cross currency swaps, the exchange rates for each foreign currency,
in which cash flows occur, are also included.
The fair value of commodity futures is based on published price quotations. It is measured as of the balance sheet date, both internally
and by external financial partners.
The carrying amounts of trade accounts receivable and other current liabilities equal their fair values. The fair value of fixed rate liabilities
equals the present value of expected cash flows. Discounting is based on interest rates applicable as of the balance sheet date. The
carrying amounts of floating rate liabilities equal their fair values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value could be categorized in the following three level fair value hierarchy:

FA I R VA LU E H I E R A R C H Y A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

60

0

60

0

0

0

0

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

18

16

3

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

33

0

33

0

111

16

96

0

163

0

51

113

2

0

2

0

Financial assets at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity

Total
Financial liabilities at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial liabilities held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Total

188

62

0

62

0

227

0

114

113

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

FA I R VA LU E H I E R A R C H Y A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 7
million €

Sept. 30, 2017

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)

65

0

65

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

20

0

20

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

20

17

2

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

32

0

32

0

137

17

120

0

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial liabilities held for trading)

59

0

59

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

10

0

10

0

Financial assets at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss

Fair value recognized in equity

Total
Financial liabilities at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss

Fair value recognized in equity
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

22

0

22

0

Total

92

0

92

0

The fair value hierarchy reflects the significance of the inputs used to determine fair values. Financial instruments with fair value
measurement based on quoted prices in active markets are disclosed in level 1. In level 2 determination of fair values is based on
observable inputs, e.g. foreign exchange rates. level 3 comprises financial instruments for which the fair value measurement is based on
unobservable inputs.
The following table shows the reconciliation of level 3 financial instruments:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N LE V E L 3 F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S
million €

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016 (assets/(liability))

(113)

Changes recognized in profit or loss

51

Disposal of Steel Americas buiness area

62

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2017 (assets/(liability))

0

The financial liability, which is based on individual valuation parameters and recognized at fair value, primarily comprises a freight
derivative which was valued according to the contractually agreed minimum volume on the basis of recognized hedge models taking into
account the market data prevailing at the closing date. The resulting income effect is recognized in the consolidated statement of income
under “Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)”.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost with a carrying amount of €13,892 million (prior year: €13,667 million) have a fair value of
€14,270 million (prior year: €14,008 million) that was determined based on fair value measurement attributable to Level 2.

189

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Netting of financial assets and financial liabilities
In general, master netting arrangements exist only for derivative financial instruments in the thyssenkrupp Group that however totally or
partially do not meet the offsetting criteria under IAS 32.
In these cases a right of offsetting is enforceable only on termination of the contract on the grounds of a major breach of contract or
insolvency of one of the contractual parties. The gross amounts for these derivatives are therefore presented separately in the statement of
financial position. Potential offsetting exists in the amount of €46 million (prior year: €42 million). An exception from this are futures, for
which the fair values are settled daily on the basis of margin calls. These derivatives meet the offsetting criteria under IAS 32 and are
therefore shown as net amounts in the statement of financial position; they amount of €6 million (prior year: €13 million). Cash collateral
exists in the amount of €6 million (prior year: €10 million).
The following table shows net gains and losses from financial instruments by measurement categories. Gains or losses arising from
finance lease and from derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are not included, as they are not part of any IAS 39 measurement
category.

N E T G AI N S AN D L O S S E S FR O M F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U ME N T S
million €

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

46

72

9

6

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets/liabilities held for trading)

38

(171)

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

(446)

(283)

1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

Net gains under “loans and receivables” mainly comprise interest income on financial receivables, individual allowances for trade accounts
receivable as well as gains and losses on foreign currency receivables.
The category “available-for-sale financial assets” mainly includes current earnings from equity and debt instruments.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of foreign currency, interest rate and commodity derivatives that do not comply with the
hedge accounting requirements under IAS 39 are included in the “derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting” category.
The category “financial liabilities measured at amortized cost” mainly comprises of interest expenses on financial liabilities as well as gains
and losses on foreign currency liabilities.
Included in net gains and losses are exchange differences of €126 million (prior year: €(69) million).

Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency options, interest
rate swaps, cross currency swaps and commodity forward contracts. Derivative financial instruments are generally used to hedge existing
or anticipated underlying transactions so as to reduce foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks.

190

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The following table shows the notional amounts and fair values of derivatives used within the Group:

D E R I VATI V E FI N A N CI A L I N S T R U M E N T S
Notional amount
as of
Sept. 30, 2016

Carrying amount
as of
Sept. 30, 2016

Notional amount
as of
Sept. 30, 2017

2,100

41

1,071

33

360

14

404

19

70

1

89

3

0

0

13

0

Interest rate derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges1)

618

9

106

4

Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

278

18

335

28

Commodity derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges

64

10

62

9

Commodity derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges

0

0

212

20

3,490

93

2,292

117

million €

Carrying amount
as of
Sept. 30, 2017

Assets
Foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Foreign currency derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges
Embedded derivatives
Interest rate derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

Total
Equity and liabilities
Foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

2,662

30

1,109

27

Foreign currency derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges

400

7

244

10

Embedded derivatives

169

2

129

7

11

0

11

0

Interest rate derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Interest rate derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges1)

406

32

10

0

Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting2)

483

131

294

25

Commodity derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges

152

23

146

12

Commodity derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges

50

2

152

10

4,332

227

2,095

92

Total
1)
2)

Inclusive of cross currency swaps
Inclusive of freight derivatives as of Sept. 30, 2016

Derivates that qualify for hedge accounting
Hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 is used to hedge foreign currency risks of firm commitments, future receivables and liabilities
denominated in foreign currency, commodity price risks arising from sales and purchase transactions, and interest rate and foreign
currency risks from non-current financings.

Cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are mainly used to hedge future cash flows against foreign currency and commodity price risks arising from future sales
and purchase transactions as well as interest rate and foreign currency risks from non-current liabilities. These derivatives are measured at
fair value, divided into an effective and ineffective portion. Until realization of the hedged underlying transaction, the effective portion of
fluctuations in fair value of these derivatives is recognized directly in equity in the cumulative other comprehensive income position, while
the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity is reclassified to profit or loss in the
same period during which the future underlying transactions (hedged items) affect profit or loss. As of September 30, 2017, hedging
instruments with positive fair value totaled €32 million (prior year: €33 million) and those with negative fair value totaled €22 million (prior
year: €62 million). For the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year, €82 million (prior year: €104 million) (before tax) in unrealized gains or losses have
been recognized directly in equity in the cumulative other comprehensive income position. Cash flows from future transactions are currently
hedged for a maximum of 64 months.

191

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

During the current fiscal year, €11 million (prior year: €1 million) of cumulative other comprehensive income were reclassified to sales in
profit or loss as a result of the underlying transactions being realized during the year. In addition, €3 million (prior year: €3 million to
increase cost of inventories) of cumulative other comprehensive income were reclassified to decrease cost of inventories, as the hedged
commodities were recognized, although the underlying transaction had not yet been taken to profit or loss. This resulted in increased
expenses of €2 million in 2016 / 2017. Furthermore, €0 million (prior year: €19 million) of cumulative other comprehensive income were
reclassified and increased cost of property, plant and equipment; they exclusively related to discontinued operations. Thereof expenses of
€0 million impacted earnings in 2016 / 2017.
As of September 30, 2017, net income from the ineffective portions of derivatives classified as cash flow hedges totaled €0 million (prior
year: €5 million; thereof €3 million relates to discontinued operations).
In the subsequent fiscal year fluctuations in fair value of derivatives included in cumulative other comprehensive income as of the reporting
date is expected to impact earnings by expenses of €5 million. During the 2018 / 2019 fiscal year, earnings are expected to be impacted
by expenses of €25 million, during the 2019 / 2020 fiscal year by expenses of €49 million and during the following fiscal years by
expenses of €0 million.

Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are mainly used to hedge the exposure to changes in fair value of a firm commitment and exposure to inventory price
risks as well as to hedge interest rate risks. These commodity and interest rate derivatives are measured at fair value. The carrying
amounts of the corresponding underlying transactions are adjusted for the change of the fair values of the hedged risks. As of September
30, 2017 hedging instruments with positive fair value totaled €20 million (prior year: €0 million) and with negative fair value totaled €10
million (prior year: €2 million). During the fiscal year, income/(expense), net from the measurement of fair value hedging instruments
totaled €(28) million (prior year: €(6) million), while income/(expense), net from the corresponding underlying transactions during the same
period amounted to €28 million (prior year: €6 million).

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
If a hedging relationship does not meet the requirements for hedge accounting in accordance with the conditions under IAS 39 or hedge
accounting is economically not reasonable, the derivative financial instrument is recognized as a derivative that does not qualify for hedge
accounting. The resulting impact on profit or loss is shown in the table on net gains and losses from financial instruments by measurement
categories. This item also includes embedded derivatives. They exist in the thyssenkrupp Group in the way that regular supply and service
transactions with suppliers and customers abroad are not concluded in the functional currency (local currency) of either contracting parties.

Financial risks
Being a global Group, thyssenkrupp is exposed to financial risks in the form of credit risks (default risk), liquidity risks and market risks
(foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks) during the course of ordinary activities. The aim of risk management is to limit
the risks arising from operating activities and associated financing requirements by applying selected derivate and non-derivative hedging
instruments. Details are provided in the opportunity and risk report of the management report.

Maturity analysis
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its existing or future obligations due to insufficient availability of cash or cash
equivalents.

192

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The following table shows future undiscounted cash outflows from financial liabilities based on contractual agreements:

F U T U R E U N D I S CO U N T E D C A S H O U T F L O W S
A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6

million €

Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutions
Finance lease liabilities
Other financial debt
Trade accounts payable
Derivative financial liabilities not qualifying for hedge accounting
Derivative financial liabilities qualifying for hedge accounting
Other financial liabilities

Cash flows
between
Cash flows in 2018/2019 and
2017/2018
2020/2021

Carrying
amount
Sept. 30, 2016

Cash flows in
2016/2017

Cash flows
after
2020/2021

6,269

1,460

1,755

3,084

660

713

247

240

281

77

33

12

7

13

15

596

33

101

330

246

5,119

4,982

128

10

0

163

73

27

64

0

63

45

0

23

0

970

964

4

1

2

Carrying
amount
Sept. 30, 2017

Cash flows in
2017/2018

Cash flows
between
Cash flows in 2019/2020 and
2018/2019
2021/2022

Cash flows
after
2021/2022

6,269

1,772

108

4,309

645

385

307

35

68

59

25

8

7

9

14

577

109

137

303

110

5,729

5,330

345

46

9

59

56

3

2

0

F U T U R E U N D I S CO U N T E D C A S H O U T F L O W S
A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 7

million €

Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutions
Finance lease liabilities
Other financial debt
Trade accounts payable
Derivative financial liabilities not qualifying for hedge accounting
Derivative financial liabilities qualifying for hedge accounting
Other financial liabilities

33

22

0

10

0

932

930

1

0

2

Cash flows from derivatives are offset by cash flows from hedged underlying transactions, which have not been considered in the analysis
of maturities. If cash flows from the hedged underlying transactions were also considered, the cash flows shown in the table would be
accordingly lower.

Sensitivity analysis
Market risk is the risk that fair values or future cash flows of non-derivative or derivative financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes
in risk factors. Among market risks relevant to thyssenkrupp are foreign currency, interest rate, procurement (commodity price), and
especially raw material price risks. Associated with these risks are fluctuations in income, equity and cash flow.
The following analyses and amounts determined by means of sensitivity analyses represent hypothetical, future-oriented data that can
differ from actual outcomes because of unforeseeable developments in financial markets. Moreover, non-financial or non-quantifiable
risks, such as business risks, are not considered here.

193

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Foreign currency risk exposure – Foreign currency hedging is used to fix prices on the basis of hedging rates as protection against any
unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations in the future. Hedging periods are generally based on the maturities of underlying transactions.
Foreign currency derivative contracts usually have maturities of twelve months or less, but can also be up to six years in single exceptional
cases.
The US dollar is the only relevant risk variable for sensitivity analyses under IFRS 7, as the vast majority of foreign currency cash flows
occurs in US dollars. As hedging transactions are generally used to hedge underlying transactions, opposite effects in underlying and
hedging transactions are almost entirely offset over the total period. Thus, the currency risk exposure described here results from hedging
relationships with off-balance sheet underlying transactions, i.e. hedges of firm commitments and forecasted sales. Based on our analysis,
the US dollar exposure as of September 30, 2017 was as follows:
If the euro had been 10% stronger against the US dollar as of September 30, 2017, the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of hedging
transactions would have been €8 million (prior year: €8 million) higher and earnings resulting from the measurement as of the balance
sheet date €28 million (prior year: €0 million) higher. If the euro had been 10% weaker against the US dollar as of September 30, 2017,
the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of hedging transactions would have been €10 million (prior year: €10 million) lower and earnings
resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet date €32 million lower (prior year: €2 million higher).
Interest rate risk – To hedge interest rate risk, in some cases the Group uses derivatives. These instruments are contracted with the
objective of minimizing interest rate volatilities and finance costs for underlying transactions.
As of September 30, 2016 and 2017, respectively, all interest derivatives are immediately and directly allocated to particular financings as
cash flow hedges. As of the current balance sheet date almost all interest rate derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, while as
of the prior year’s balance sheet date all interest derivatives qualified for hedge accounting.
Cross currency swaps have been contracted in connection with the financing of foreign activities, mainly for US dollars.
Interest rate instruments can result in cash flow risks, opportunity effects, as well as interest rate risks affecting the balance sheet and
earnings. Refinancing and variable-rate financial instruments are subject to cash flow risk which expresses the uncertainty of future interest
payments. Cash flow risk is measured by means of cash flow sensitivity. Opportunity effects arise from non-derivatives, as these are
measured at amortized cost rather than fair value, in contrast to interest derivatives. This difference, the so-called opportunity effect,
affects neither the balance sheet nor the statement of income. On-balance sheet interest rate risks affecting equity result from the
measurement of interest derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges. Interest rate risks affecting earnings arise from the remaining interest
rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting. Opportunity effects and interest rate risks affecting the balance sheet and earnings
are determined by calculating fair value sensitivity analyses and changes.

194

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

As of September 30, 2017, a +100 /(20) basis point parallel shift in yield curves is assumed for all currencies in interest analyses. The
parallel downward shift is limited to (20) basis points to account for continued low interest rates with in part negative interest rates.
Negative interest rates are included in the current analysis. The analysis results in the opportunities (positive values) and risks (negative
values) shown in the following table:

I N T E R E S T A NA LYS I S
Changes in all yield curves as of
Sept. 30, 2016 by
million €

Cash flow risk
Opportunity effects
Interest rate risks resulting from interest rate derivatives affecting balance sheet
Interest rate risks resulting from interest rate derivatives affecting earnings

Sept. 30, 2017 by

+ 100 basis points

(20) basis points

+ 100 basis points

30

(6)

51

(20) basis points

(10)

236

(49)

220

(45)

(1)

0

(1)

0

0

0

0

0

If, as of September 30, 2017, all yield curves combined had been 100 basis points higher, the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of the
relevant interest derivatives would have been €1 million (prior year: €1 million) lower and earnings resulting from the measurement as of
the balance sheet date €51 million (prior year: €30 million) higher. If, as of September 30, 2017, all yield curves combined had been
20 basis points lower, the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of the relevant interest derivatives would have been unchanged and
earnings resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet date €10 million (prior year: €6 million) lower.
Procurement risk (Commodity price risk) – To minimize risks arising from commodity price volatilities, the Group also uses derivatives,
especially for ore, copper, nickel, zinc, aluminium and tin.
To minimize the risk of fluctuating freight prices, the Group uses among other things long-term fixed price contracts, of which one contract
was recognized as a commodity forward transaction measured at fair value.
Only hypothetical changes in market prices for derivatives are included in scenario analysis, required for financial instruments under
IFRS 7. Offsetting effects from underlying transactions are not taken into account and would reduce their effect significantly.
As of September 30, 2017 a +20%/(20)% shift in market prices for non-ferrous metals is assumed; in prior year, a shift in freight rates by
+20%/(20)% was included in addition. If an increase of 20% in market prices for said non-ferrous metals is assumed, the estimated
hypothetical impact on profit or loss resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet date is €(6) million (prior year: €3 million
inclusive of freight rates), and on equity €(1) million (prior year: €9 million inclusive of freight rates). If a decrease of 20% in market prices
for said non-ferrous metals is assumed, the estimated hypothetical impact on profit or loss resulting from the measurement as of the
balance sheet date is €11 million (prior year: €(3) million inclusive of freight rates), and on equity €12 million (prior year: €4 million
inclusive of freight rates).

195

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

22 Related parties
Based on the notification received in accordance with German Securities Trade Act (WpHG) Art. 21 para. 1 as of December 3, 2013, the
Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation holds an interest of 23.03% in thyssenkrupp AG; based on a voluntary disclosure of the
Foundation as of September 2017, the interest in thyssenkrupp AG decreased to a slightly lower share of around 21%. Outside the
services and considerations provided for in the by-laws (Article 21 of the Articles of Association of thyssenkrupp AG), there are no other
significant delivery and service relations.
In 2015 / 2016 and 2016 / 2017, the Group has business relations with non-consolidated subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Transactions with these related parties result in general from the delivery and service relations in the ordinary course of business; the
extent of the business relations is presented in the following table:

R E LAT E D PA R T Y T R A N S AC TI O N S
Sales
million €

Supplies and services

Receivables

Total liabilities

Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2017

Non-consolidated subsidiaries

0

0

1

1

2

Associates

42

39

3

4

2

Joint ventures

15

17

13

3

4

0

0

0

3

9

2

3

28

0

Compensation of current Executive and Supervisory Board members
The Group’s key management personnel compensation which has to be disclosed in accordance with IAS 24 comprises of the
compensation of the current Executive and Supervisory Board members.
Compensation of the current Executive Board members is as follows:

CO M P E N S AT I O N O F E X E C UT I V E B OAR D M E M B E R S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Short-term benefits (excluding share-based compensation)

6,526

6,594

Post-employment benefits

4,848

1,497

Thousand €

Share-based compensation
Total

4,056

5,289

15,430

13,380

Service cost and past service cost resulting from the pension obligations of the current members of the Executive Board are disclosed as
post-employment benefits. The disclosure of share-based compensation refers to the fair value at grant date.
As of September 30, 2016 and 2017, respectively, no loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Executive Board; also
as in the previous year no contingencies were assumed for the benefit of Executive Board members.

196

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Compensation of the current Supervisory Board members is as follows:

CO M P E N S AT I O N O F S U P E R V I S O R Y B OAR D M E MB E R S
Thousand €

Short-term benefits (inclusive of meeting attendance fees)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

1,622

1,632

In addition, members of the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG received compensation of €56 thousand in fiscal 2016 / 2017 (prior
year: €69 thousand) for supervisory board mandates at Group subsidiaries.
As of September 30, 2016 and 2017, respectively, no loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Supervisory Board;
also as in the previous year no contingencies were assumed for the benefit of Supervisory Board members.
For individualized presentation and further details of Executive and Supervisory Board compensation refer to the compensation report
presented in the “Corporate Governance” chapter that is part of the combined management report.

Compensation of former Executive and Supervisory Board members
Total compensation paid to former members of the Executive Board and their surviving dependants amounted to €14.5 million (prior year:
€17.4 million). Under IFRS an amount of €270.1 million (prior year: €304.1 million) is accrued for pension obligations benefiting former
Executive Board members and their surviving dependants.

23 Segment reporting
thyssenkrupp is organized in the following operating business areas that represent the Group’s activities within capital goods and
materials. The business areas are in line with the internal organizational and reporting structure and represent the segments in accordance
with IFRS 8. Until the closing of the disposal at the beginning of September 2017, the Steel Americas business area is classified as a
discontinued operation.

Components Technology
This business area offers efficient and innovative components for the automotive, construction and engineering sectors as well as for wind
turbines.

Elevator Technology
This business area is active in the construction, modernization and servicing of elevators, escalators, moving walks, stair and platform lifts
as well as passenger boarding bridges. Alongside a full range of installations for the volume market, the business area also delivers
customized solutions.

Industrial Solutions
Industrial Solutions is a leading international supplier in special and large-scale plant construction as well as naval shipbuilding.

Materials Services
The business area is focused on the global distribution of materials and the provision of complex technical services for the production and
manufacturing sectors.

197

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Steel Europe
The business brings together the premium flat carbon steel activities, from intelligent materials solutions to finished parts.

Corporate
Corporate comprises the Group’s head office including the Regional Headquarters. Corporate also includes the Service Units which mainly
perform processes in accounting, IT, real estate services and HR, and the Special Units, among other things for the management of the
Group’s real estate.

Steel Americas
This business area mainly consists of the steel mill in Brazil (CSA). It runs the production, processing and marketing of high-quality steel.
Until the closing of the disposal at the beginning of September 2017, the business area is classified as a discontinued operation.

Consolidation
Consolidation essentially contains the elimination of intercompany profits in inventories and the reversal of intercompany interest income.
The accounting principles for the segments are the same as those described for the Group in the summary of significant accounting
principles. In accordance with the management approach which is applicable to segment reporting all figures presented are inclusive of
disposal groups and discontinued operations. Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
thyssenkrupp’s key earnings performance indicator is EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes) and adjusted EBIT. EBIT is calculated
according to economic criteria and is independent from IFRS rules. It provides information on the profitability of a unit and contains all
elements of the income statement relating to operating performance. This also includes items of financial income/expense that can be
characterized as operational, including income and expense from investments where there is a long-term intention to hold the assets.
Adjusted EBIT is EBIT adjusted for special items, i.e. excluding disposal losses/gains from M&A, restructuring expenses, impairment
losses/impairment reversals and other non-operating expenses and income. It is more suitable than EBIT for comparing operating
performance over several periods.

198

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Capital employed is the key indicator for capital tied up in operating activities. It mainly comprises fixed assets, inventories and
receivables. Deducted from this are certain non-interest-bearing liability items such as trade accounts payable; cf. the following
reconciliation.

S E G ME N T I N F O R M ATI O N FO R T HE YE A R E N DE D
S E P T. 3 0 , 2 01 6
million €

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

Steel Europe

Corporate

Steel
Americas1)

6,802

7,465

5,732

11,601

5

3

13

285

6,362

38

1,271

217

6,807

7,468

5,744

11,886

7,633

0

2

9

(2)

37

Consolidation

Group

1,263

0

39,263

226

(2,020)

0

255

1,489

(2,020)

39,263

0

0

0

46

For the fiscal year year ended
Sept. 30, 2016
Net sales
Internal sales within the Group
Total sales
Income from companies accounted
for using the equity method
Aggregate investment in
investees accounted for
using the equity method
EBIT
Adjusted EBIT
Average capital employed
Depreciation and amortization expense
Impairment losses of intangible
assets, property, plant and
equipment inclusive of
investment property
Reversals of impairment losses
of intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment inclusive of
investment property
Significant non-cash items
Capital expenditures (intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment inclusive
of investment property)
1)

0

4

125

47

107

2

0

0

284

251

771

333

76

316

(542)

(22)

6

1,189

335

860

355

128

315

(497)

(33)

6

1,469

3,587

1,197

(475)

3,861

5,012

653

2,145

(46)

15,933

319

80

65

113

401

49

143

(6)

1,165

57

6

7

7

11

7

0

0

95

0

0

0

0

7

0

0

0

7

(109)

(146)

(141)

(52)

(113)

(168)

1

0

(729)

488

128

75

128

393

45

110

(5)

1,362

Discontinued operation

199

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

S E G M E N T I N F O R M A T I O N F O R T H E Y E A R E N D E D S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 7
million €

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

Steel Europe

Corporate

Steel
Americas1)

Consolidation

Group

7,561

7,660

5,487

13,364

7,378

(2)

1,525

0

42,971

For the fiscal year year ended
Sept. 30, 2017
Net sales
Internal sales within the Group
Total sales
Income from companies accounted
for using the equity method
Aggregate investment in
investees accounted for
using the equity method

11

14

35

301

1,537

280

323

(2,502)

0

7,571

7,674

5,522

13,665

8,915

278

1,848

(2,502)

42,971

0

2

(20)

2

31

0

0

0

15

154

0

2

6

42

101

2

0

0

EBIT

297

736

(36)

220

493

(569)

(444)

(9)

687

Adjusted EBIT

377

922

111

312

547

(535)

186

(9)

1,910

3,740

1,127

430

3,652

5,286

849

1,654

(9)

16,728

328

85

79

111

410

54

60

(5)

1,121

20

3

6

7

2

5

648

0

691

Average capital employed
Depreciation and amortization expense
Impairment losses of intangible
assets, property, plant and
equipment inclusive of
investment property
Reversals of impairment losses
of intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment inclusive of
investment property
Significant non-cash items
Capital expenditures (intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment inclusive
of investment property)
1)

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

(141)

(552)

(257)

(86)

(145)

(135)

(1)

0

(1,316)

551

136

92

132

566

58

75

1

1,610

Discontinued operation

200

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The reconciliations of net sales and of the earnings figure EBIT to EBT according to the statement of income are presented below:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N NE T S A LE S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Net sales as presented in segment reporting

39,263

42,971

– Net sales Steel Americas

(1,263)

(1,525)

Net sales as presented in the statement of income

38,000

41,447

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

million €

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N E B I T TO E B T
million €

Adjusted EBIT as presented in segment reporting
Special items
EBIT as presented in segment reporting
+ Non-operating income/(expense) from companies accounted for using the equity method

1,469

1,910

(280)

(1,224)

1,189

687

0

0

+ Finance income

1,030

1,019

– Finance expense

(1,627)

(1,619)

– Items of finance income assigned to EBIT based on economic classification

36

(52)

+ Items of finance expense assigned to EBIT based on economic classification

25

26

652

61

EBT-Group
– EBT Steel Americas
EBT from continuing operations as presented in the statement of income
1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

201

39

705

691

765

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Total assets in accordance with the consolidated statement of financial position can be reconciled to average capital employed as follows:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N TOTA L AS S E T S TO C A P I TA L E M P L OY E D
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Total assets

35,072

35,048

Deferred tax assets

(2,322)

(1,680)

Current income tax assets

(172)

(220)

(4,105)

(5,292)

(143)

(198)

Provisions for other non-current employee benefits

(373)

(354)

Other provisions, non-current

(589)

(645)

Cash and cash equivalents
Adjustments due to included assets classified as non-operating items
Liability items reducing capital employed:

Other non-financial liabilities, non-current
Provisions for current employee benefits
Other provisions, current
Trade accounts payable
Other financial liabilities, current
Other non-financial liabilities, current
Adjustments due to included liabilities classified as non-operating items
Capital employed as of balance sheet date
Impact from adjusting average capital employed to capital employed as of balance sheet date
Average capital employed (5-points-average)
Correction factors with increasing impact on performance requirements for positive value added
Average capital employed as presented in segment reporting

(6)

(5)

(408)

(357)

(963)

(1,183)

(5,119)

(5,729)

(975)

(842)

(7,130)

(6,802)

560

522

13,326

12,261

407

2,267

13,733

14,528

2,200

2,200

15,933

16,728

In presenting information for geographical areas, allocation of sales is based on the location of the customer. Allocation of segment assets
and capital expenditures is based on the location of the assets. Capital expenditures are presented in line with the definition of the cash
flow statement.
There are no individual customers that generate sales values that are material to the Group’s consolidated net sales.

E X TE R N A L S AL E S BY R E G I O N S 1 )
million €

Germany

USA

China

Outside Germany

Group

Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

10,719

6,955

2,728

18,860

39,263

Year ended Sept. 30, 2017

12,006

7,755

2,891

20,319

42,971

External sales (location of customer)

1)

Inclusive of discontinued operation Steel Americas

202

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

N O N - C U R R E NT A S S E T S BY R E G I O N S
million €

Germany

USA

Brazil

Outside
Germany

Group

Non-current assets (intangible assets, property, plant and equipment inclusive of
investment property and other non-financial assets)
(location of assets)
Sept. 30, 2016

6,458

1,422

2,197

3,876

13,953

Sept. 30, 2017

6,963

1,355

264

4,042

12,625

Notes to the consolidated statement of income
24 Net sales
Net sales include revenues resulting from the sale of goods of €27,031 million (prior year: €23,754 million), the rendering of services of
€5,422 million (prior year: €5,243 million) as well as sales from construction contracts of €8,410 million (prior year: €8,630 million).

25 Other income
OT H E R I N COM E
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Gains from premiums and from grants

11

12

Insurance compensation

34

21

million €

Miscellaneous

168

246

Total

213

278

1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

Miscellaneous other income contains a gain of €50 million from the remeasurement of the investment in Atlas Elektronik in connection with
the switch to full consolidation. Furthermore miscellaneous other income includes a multitude of minor single items resulting from the 461
(prior year: 471) consolidated companies.

26 Other expenses
OT H E R E X PE NS E S
million €

Additions to/reversals of provisions
Other taxes

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

12

17

9

28

Miscellaneous

75

122

Total

97

167

1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

203

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Miscellaneous other expenses include a multitude of minor single items resulting from the 461 (prior year: 471) consolidated companies.

27 Other gains/(losses), net
OT H E R G A I N S / ( L O S S E S ) , N E T
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Gain/(loss) on disposal of intangible assets, net

0

(1)

Gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net

5

29

11

2

million €

Gain/(loss) on disposal of investment property, net
Gain/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, net

6

5

Miscellaneous

(1)

(6)

Total

22

29

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Income from companies accounted for using the equity method

46

15

Interest income from financial receivables

88

59

1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

28 Financial income/(expense), net
F I N A N C I A L I NCO M E / ( E X P E NS E ) , N E T
million €

Income from investments
Other finance income
Finance income

9

5

819

712

916

776

Interest expense from financial debt

(349)

(274)

Net interest cost of pensions and similar obligations

(182)

(113)

Expense from investments
Other finance expenses
Finance expense
Total
1)

(1)

0

(918)

(794)

(1,449)

(1,181)

(488)

(391)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

For the investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting cf. also Note 06.
The line item “other finance income” includes interest income from financial assets that are not measured at fair value through profit or
loss of €10 million (prior year: €17 million) and the line item “other finance expenses” include interest expense from financial liabilities that
are not measured at fair value through profit or loss of €30 million (prior year: €28 million).

204

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

29 Income taxes
Income tax expense/(benefit) consists of the following:

B R E A K D OW N O F I N CO ME TA X E X PE N S E /( B E NE F I T )
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Current income tax expense/(benefit)

303

254

Deferred income tax expense/(benefit)

31

241

334

495

Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

334

495

56

157

(395)

246

million €

Total
1)

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

The components of income taxes recognized in total equity are as follows:

I N CO ME TAX E S R E CO G NI Z E D I N TOTA L E Q U I T Y
million €

Income tax expense/(benefit) as presented on the statement of income
Income tax expense on discontinued operations
Income non-effective tax effect on other comprehensive income
Continuing operations
Discontinued operation
Total
1)

0

0

(5)

898

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

As of September 30, 2017, taxable temporary differences from undistributed profits of subsidiaries in the Group for which no deferred tax
liability is recognized, as such profits are not to be distributed in the foreseeable future, amount to €397 million (prior year: €439 million).

205

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

I N V E N TOR Y OF D E F E R R E D TA X A S S E T S A N D L I AB I LI TI E S
Deferred tax assets
million €

Deferred tax liabilities

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Sept. 30, 2016

Sept. 30, 2017

Deferred income taxes on non-current items
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment (inclusive of investment property)
Financial assets
Other assets
Accrued pension and similar obligations

91

66

500

546

696

108

452

466

70

81

31

18

598

576

918

856

1,265

1,130

1

6

Other provisions

125

136

33

43

Other liabilities

210

243

540

103

451

395

39

151

Deferred income taxes on current items
Inventories
Other assets
Other provisions

23

36

5

5

159

154

295

340

488

568

Other liabilities

1,087

899

Valuation allowance - temporary differences

(521)

(29)

Subtotal

4,254

3,795

3,302

3,102

Tax losses carried forward

2,982

1,461

—

—

266

257

—

—

66

69

—

—

(1,977)

(911)

Interest carried forward
Foreign tax credits
Valuation allowance - tax losses carried forward etc.
Subtotal

1,337

876

0

0

Gross amount before offsetting

5,591

4,671

3,302

3,102

(3,269)

(2,991)

(3,269)

(2,991)

2,322

1,680

33

111

Offsetting
Balance sheet amount

As of September 30, 2017, tax losses carried forward for which no deferred tax asset is recognized amount to €3,707 million (prior year:
€7,337 million). According to tax legislation as of September 30, 2017, an amount of €3,689 million (prior year: €7,189 million) of these
tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely and in unlimited amounts whereas an amount of €18 million (prior year: €148 million) of
these tax losses carried forward will expire over the next 20 years if not utilized.
As of September 30, 2017, based on the existing tax losses carried forward, the following deferred tax assets are recognized among
others, because these are supported by substantial evidence for sufficient future taxable income: thyssenkrupp AG (Germany) €247 million
(prior year: €465 million) and Acciai Speciali Terni S.p.A. (Italy) €50 million (prior year: €0 million).

206

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The German corporate income tax law applicable for 2016 / 2017 sets a statutory income tax rate of 32.0% (prior year: 31.7%) taking into
account the different German municipal tax rates. The applicable tax rates for companies outside Germany range from 10.0% to 39.0%
(prior rate: 10.0% to 39.0%).

TA X R AT E R E CO N C I LI AT I ON
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

in %

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

in %

Expected income tax expense/(benefit)

220

31.7

245

32.0

Tax rate differentials to the German combined income tax rate

(11)

(1.6)

(10)

(1.3)

3

0.4

1

0.1

120

17.4

247

32.3

49

7.1

67

8.8

million €

Changes in tax rates or laws
Change in valuation allowance
Permanent items
Tax consequences of disposal of businesses
Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method
Non-creditable withholding taxes
Tax benefit related to prior periods
Others
Income tax expense/(benefit) as presented on the statement of income
1)

(1)

(0.1)

(2)

(0.3)

(15)

(2.2)

(5)

(0.7)

42

6.1

56

7.3

(75)

(10.9)

(107)

(14.0)

2

0.3

3

0.4

334

48.3

495

64.7

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

30 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated as follows:

E A R N I NG S P E R S H AR E
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Total amount
in million €

Earnings per
share in €

Total amount
in million €

Earnings per
share in €

311

0.55

212

0.37

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders)

(15)

(0.03)

(861)

(1.52)

Net income/(loss) (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG's shareholders)

296

0.52

(649)

(1.15)

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders)

Weighted average shares
1)

565,937,947

566,252,357

Figures have been adjusted (cf. Note 03).

In the year ended September 30, 2017 the weighted average number of shares increased as a result of the capital increase carried out at
the end of September 2017 (cf. Note 12).
There were no dilutive securities in the periods presented.

207

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

31 Additional disclosures on the consolidated statement of income
Personnel expenses included in the consolidated statement of income are comprised of:

P E R S O N N E L E X P E N SE S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Wages and salaries

6,829

7,305

Social security taxes

1,253

1,284

million €

Net periodic pension cost – defined benefit 1)

177

199

Net periodic pension costs – defined contribution

161

162

Other expenses for pensions and retirements

154

338

Related fringe benefits

368

417

8,942

9,705

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017

Components Technology

30,128

31,913

Elevator Technology

51,609

52,281

Industrial Solutions

19,528

20,553

Materials Services

19,843

19,784

Steel Europe

27,385

27,418

Corporate

3,318

3,715

Steel Americas

3,773

3,761

155,584

159,424

Wage earners

82,519

83,718

Salary earners

69,553

72,050

3,512

3,657

Total
1)

Excluding net interest that is recognized as part of financial expenses.

The annual average number of employees is as follows:

A N N U A L AV E R AG E N U MB E R O F E M P L OY E E S

Total
Thereof:

Trainees

Auditors’ fees and services
For the services performed by the Group auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and the companies of
the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers association the following fees (including expenses) were recognized as expenses:

208

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

F E E S O F G R OU P A U D I TO R
Year ended
Sept. 30, 20161)
million €

Audit fees

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2017
Total

thereof Germany

Total

thereof Germany

16

7

16

8

Audit-related fees

1

1

0

0

Tax fees

1

0

0

0

Fees for other services

0

0

1

0

18

8

17

8

Total
1)

Figures have been adjusted.

The audit fees include primarily fees for the year-end audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditors’ review of the interim
consolidated financial statements and the statutory auditing of thyssenkrupp AG and the subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial
statements. The audit-related fees mainly cover audits of the internal control system including project-related audits in connection with the
introduction of IT systems and other audit-related services. The tax fees include in particular fees for the preparation of tax returns, for tax
due diligence services as well as for tax advice in connection with projects and Group-internal reorganizations. The fees for other services
are mainly fees for project-related consulting services.

Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows
32 Additional information on the consolidated statement of cash flows
The liquid funds considered in the consolidated statement of cash flows correspond to the “Cash and cash equivalents” line item in the
consolidated statement of financial position. As of September 30, 2017 cash and cash equivalents of €52 million (prior year: €146 million)
result from the joint operation HKM.

Non-cash investing activities
In fiscal year 2016 / 2017, the acquisition and first-time consolidation of companies created an increase in non-current assets of €458
million (prior year: €3 million).

Subsequent events
33 Subsequent events
No reportable events occurred.

209

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Other information
34 Declarations of conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with
Art. 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG issued the declaration of conformity in accordance with Art. 161 of the
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made it publicly available to the shareholders on the company’s website on October 1, 2017.
The declaration of conformity of our exchange-listed subsidiary Eisen- und Hüttenwerke AG was issued on October 1, 2017 and is now
publicly available to the shareholders on the company’s website.

35 Application of Art. 264 Par. 3 and Art. 264b of German Commercial Code (HGB)
The following domestic subsidiaries in the legal form of a capital corporation or a commercial partnership as defined in Art. 264a partly
made use of the exemption clause included in Art. 264 Par. 3 and Art. 264b of German Commercial Code:
A

T

ATLAS ELEKTRONIK GmbH

Bremen

Tepper Aufzüge GmbH

Münster

AWG Industrieanlagen und Wassertechnik GmbH Berlin

Berlin

Thyssen Liegenschaften Verwaltungs- und Verwertungs
GmbH & Co. KG Industrie

Essen

B
Becker & Co. GmbH

Neuwied

Thyssen Liegenschaften Verwaltungs- und Verwertungs
GmbH & Co. KG Stahl

BERCO Deutschland GmbH

Ennepetal

Thyssen Stahl GmbH

Blohm + Voss Shipyards & Services GmbH

Hamburg

thyssenkrupp Academy GmbH

Düsseldorf

Brüninghaus Schmiede GmbH

Grünwald

thyssenkrupp Access Solutions GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Aerospace Germany GmbH

Rodgau

thyssenkrupp Aufzüge GmbH

Neuhausen a.d.F.

D
DWR - Deutsche Gesellschaft für Weißblechrecycling mbH

Andernach

E

Essen
Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Aufzugswerke GmbH

Neuhausen a.d.F.
Essen

EH Güterverkehr GmbH

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp Automotive Systems GmbH

ELEG Europäische Lift + Escalator GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH

Ennepetal

thyssenkrupp Business Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Components Tech GmbH

Essen

G
German Marine Systems GmbH

Hamburg

H
Hagenuk Marinekommunikation GmbH

Flintbek

Hellweg Liegenschaften GmbH

Bochum

J
Jacob Bek GmbH

Ulm

K

thyssenkrupp DeliCate GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Edelstahl-Service-Center GmbH

Willich

thyssenkrupp Electrical Steel GmbH

Gelsenkirchen

thyssenkrupp Electrical Steel Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Gelsenkirchen

thyssenkrupp Elevator Europe Africa GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Elevator Europe Africa Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Elevator AG

Düsseldorf

KBS Kokereibetriebsgesellschaft Schwelgern GmbH

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp Elevator Innovation GmbH

Essen

Krupp Hoesch Stahl GmbH

Dortmund

thyssenkrupp Facilities Services GmbH

Essen

L
LiftEquip GmbH Elevator Components

Neuhausen a.d.F.

M
Max Cochius GmbH

Berlin

P
PSL Wälzlager GmbH

Dietzenbach

R

thyssenkrupp Fahrtreppen GmbH

Hamburg

thyssenkrupp Federn GmbH

Hagen

thyssenkrupp Federn und Stabilisatoren GmbH

Hagen

thyssenkrupp Fertilizer Technology GmbH

Dortmund

thyssenkrupp Gerlach GmbH

Homburg/Saar

thyssenkrupp GfT Gleistechnik GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Group Services Ruhr GmbH

Bochum

thyssenkrupp Grundbesitz Verwaltungs GmbH

Essen

Rasselstein Verwaltungs GmbH

Neuwied

thyssenkrupp Hohenlimburg GmbH

Hagen

Reisebüro Dr. Tigges GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Immobilien Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. KG Stahl

Essen

210

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
3 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The following Dutch subsidiaries made use of the exemption clause
included in Art. 2:403 of the Civil Code of the Netherlands:

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG

Essen

thyssenkrupp Infrastructure GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Intellectual Property GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Management Consulting GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH

Kiel

thyssenkrupp Materials Processing Europe GmbH

Krefeld

thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Liften B.V.

Krimpen an den
Ijssel

thyssenkrupp Materials Trading EMEA GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Materials Nederland B.V.

Amsterdam

thyssenkrupp Plastics GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Nederland Holding B.V.

Roermond

Chemnitz

thyssenkrupp Participations B.V.

Veghel

thyssenkrupp Presta Ilsenburg GmbH

Ilsenburg

thyssenkrupp Veerhaven B.V.

Rotterdam

thyssenkrupp Presta Mülheim GmbH

Mülheim

thyssenkrupp Presta Schönebeck GmbH

Schönebeck

thyssenkrupp Presta Chemnitz GmbH

thyssenkrupp Rasselstein GmbH

Andernach

thyssenkrupp Raw Materials GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Regional Services Germany GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Risk and Insurance Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Rothe Erde GmbH

Dortmund

thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Senior Experts GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Stainless GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Duisburg

T

thyssenkrupp Steel Zweite Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp System Engineering GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Technologies Beteiligungen GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Transrapid GmbH

Kassel

thyssenkrupp Uhde Engineering Services GmbH

Haltern am See

thyssenkrupp Valvetrain GmbH

Ilsenburg

thyssenkrupp Vermietungs GmbH

Duisburg

U
Uhde High Pressure Technologies GmbH

Hagen

Uhde Inventa-Fischer GmbH

Berlin

Uhde Services and Consulting GmbH

Dortmund

V
Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft EZM mbH

Grünwald

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft TAUS mbH

Grünwald

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft TKAS mbH

Grünwald

36 List of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests
A complete listing of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests is published in the German Federal Gazette and is available on the
thyssenkrupp website at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

211

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

Independent Auditors’ Report
To thyssenkrupp AG, Duisburg and Essen
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Audit Opinions
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG, Duisburg and Essen, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which
comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at September 30, 2017 and the consolidated statement of income, the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash
flows for the fiscal year from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017 and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a
summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of thyssenkrupp AG, which is
combined with the Company’s management report, for the fiscal year from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017. The Corporate
Governance Statement pursuant to § (Article) 289a HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) and § 315 Abs. (paragraph) 5
HGB has not been audited by us with regard to content according to the German legal requirements.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit,
■ the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the

additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets and
financial position of the Group as at September 30, 2017 as well as the results of operations for the financial year from October 1, 2016
to September 30, 2017 in accordance with these requirements and
■ the accompanying group management report as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group's position. In all material respects, the
group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with the German legal requirements and
suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the group management report does not cover
the content of the Corporate Governance Statement mentioned above.
According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz (sentence) 1 HGB, we state that our audit has not led to any reservations with respect to the propriety of
the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.

Basis for Audit Options
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with § 317 HGB and the
EU Audit Regulation (No 537/2014) under consideration of the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). We conducted our audit of the
consolidated financial statements under additional consideration of International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Our responsibilities under
those provisions, standards as well as supplementary standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the Group
entities in accordance with provisions under EU law as well as German commercial law and professional requirements, and we have fulfilled
our other German ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Furthermore, we declare in accordance with
Article 10 (2) f) of the EU Audit Regulation that we have not provided any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 (1) of the EU
Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions
on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.

212

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial
statements for the fiscal year from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate audit opinion
on these matters.
In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit were as follows:
① Recoverability of goodwill
② Presentation of deferred tax assets
③ Disposal of Steel Americas business area
④ Provisions for litigation and risk provisions in connection with antitrust risks
⑤ First-time consolidation of ATLAS Elektronik GmbH
Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured in each case as follows:
① Matter and issue
② Audit approach and findings
③ Reference to further information
Hereinafter we present the key audit matters:
① Recoverability of goodwill
① In the consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG, goodwill amounting to €3,777 million (111.0% of Group equity) is
reported under the balance sheet item “Intangible assets” of the statement of financial position. The Company allocates the goodwill
to the relevant groups of cash-generating units in each of the respective business areas. Goodwill is subject to an impairment test at
least once annually as of the balance sheet date and if there are indications of impairment. During the impairment test, the value in
use determined for the respective group of cash-generating units is generally compared against the carrying amounts reported for that
group of cash-generating units. The discounted cash flow method is used to determine the recoverable amounts for the respective
group of cash-generating units on the basis of the thyssenkrupp Group’s medium-term planning adopted by the management. The
discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant group of cash-generating units. The result of this
measurement depends to a large extent on management’s assessment of future cash flows of the respective group of cash-generating
units and the discount rate used, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Against this background and due to the
underlying complexity of the measurement models, this matter was of particular importance for our audit.
② As part of our audit, we evaluated, among other things, the method used for performing impairment tests and assessed the calculation
of the weighted average cost of capital. In addition, we assessed the appropriateness of the future cash flows used in the
measurement, specifically by reconciling this information to the medium-term planning and by comparing it with general and sectorspecific market expectations. In the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount rate applied can have a material
impact on the value of the entity calculated in this way, we also focused our testing in particular on the parameters used to determine
the discount rate applied, and evaluated the measurement model. In addition, we carried out a detailed examination of the

213

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

measurement model and the planning for selected groups of cash-generating units as of the balance sheet date. The CGUs examined
were selected on the basis of qualitative criteria and the amount by which the recoverable amount exceeded the respective carrying
amount. In this connection, among other things, we analyzed on the basis of further evidence the consistency of planning assumptions
and the viability of planned measures to increase future cash flows, and discussed this in detail with the management. We assessed
the feasibility of the material measures which have an impact on value against the backdrop of, among other things, the business
concept to date as well as current and expected market conditions. In addition, we conducted our own sensitivity analyses. We have
found that as of the balance sheet date the discounted future cash flows were sufficient to cover the respective goodwill and, in
general, the carrying amounts of the relevant groups of cash-generating units.
③ The Company’s disclosures on goodwill and goodwill impairment are contained in section 04 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements.
② Presentation of deferred tax assets
① After set-offs and impairments, a total of €1,680 million in deferred tax assets (49.4% of Group equity) and €111 million in deferred
tax liabilities (3.3% of Group equity) are reported in the consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG. Deferred tax assets were
recognized to the extent that the management considers it probable that taxable profit will be available in the foreseeable future
through which deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and interest carryforwards can be utilized. For this purpose, insofar
sufficient deferred tax liabilities are not available, future taxable profits are projected on the basis of the planning. Deferred taxes are
calculated using future tax rates, to the extent they have already been enacted or substantively enacted. Of the €5,611 million in the
thyssenkrupp Group’s total deferred tax assets before impairments and set-offs, €1,461 million was attributable to loss carryforwards
and €257 million was attributable to interest carryforwards. €911 million of these deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards and
interest carryforwards were adjusted, because it was not expected that sufficient taxable profit would be available to the relevant legal
unit of the thyssenkrupp Group. In our view, this matter was of particular importance for our audit given the amounts involved and their
dependence on the management’s estimates and assumptions.
② As part of our audit, we evaluated, among other things, the processes and controls implemented for recording tax matters and the
appropriateness of the accounting treatment. In instances where sufficient deferred tax liabilities were not available, we have assessed
the recoverability of deferred tax assets, particularly those in relation to loss carryforwards recognized in Germany and temporary
differences between the IFRS and tax accounts, on the basis the tax projections for the thyssenkrupp Group prepared by the
management, and have evaluated the appropriateness of the underlying budget assumptions. On the basis of our audit procedures,
we were able to follow the management's assumptions relating to the recognition and measurement of deferred taxes and verify the
appropriateness of those assumptions.
③ The Company’s disclosures relating to deferred taxes are contained in sections 01 and 29 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements.
③ Disposal of Steel Americas business area
① As part of the continued strategic development of the thyssenkrupp Group, the sale of the companies belonging to the “Steel
Americas” business area, particularly the Brazilian steel mill thyssenkrupp CSA Siderúrgica do Atlantico, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, was
initiated and concluded in fiscal year 2016/2017. For this reason, the “Steel Americas” business area was designated as a disposal
group in accordance with IFRS 5 as of February 28, 2017, and classified as a discontinued operation. The measurement of the assets
and liabilities of the “Steel Americas” business area at fair value less costs of disposal resulted in an impairment of €808 million as of
that date. In addition, at that date, a provision was recognized for the first time in relation to an obligation vis-à-vis the buyer relating

214

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

to a slab supply agreement, which was recognized in the statement of financial position until the deconsolidation date. Once all
necessary approvals had been received, the “Steel Americas” business area was deconsolidated with effect from August 31, 2017.
The deconsolidation resulted in a €327 million gain on disposal at Group level, which resulted in particular from the cumulative other
comprehensive income. In our view, this matter was of particular importance for our audit due to the complexity and the material
effects on the Group.
② To assess whether the accounting treatment of the disposal of the “Steel Americas” business area was appropriate, we examined,
among other things, as part of our audit, the company law principles as well as the terms of the underlying sale agreement. In this
regard, we examined and assessed whether the conditions had been met for designation during the fiscal year as a disposal group in
accordance with IFRS 5 the resulting effects on the measurement of assets and liabilities and the conditions for classification as a
discontinued operation as well as the deconsolidation of the “Steel Americas” business area. We were able to verify that the
recognition and presentation of the disposal of the interest in the companies belonging to the “Steel Americas” business area were
systematically documented and the recognized effects on earnings were properly calculated.
③ The Company’s disclosures relating to the disposal of the interest in the companies belonging to the “Steel Americas” business area
are contained in section 03 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
④ Provisions for litigation and risk provisions in connection with antitrust risks
① Companies of the thyssenkrupp Group are parties in various court and out-of-court proceedings with authorities, competitors and other
parties. The determination of whether or not a provision should be recognized to cover the risks, and if so, in what amount, is subject
to a high degree of uncertainty.
Aside from antitrust investigations, civil damages claims in connection with the European elevator and escalator cartel and the rail
cartel are pending against individual companies of the thyssenkrupp Group. Claimants in the civil damages cases in connection with
the European elevator and escalator cartel and the rail cartel are seeking damages in particular on the basis of price gouging by the
cartel. Corresponding risk provisions for the aforementioned legal disputes have been recognized in the consolidated financial
statements under other provisions. In our view, these investigations and damages claims are of material significance to our audit
based on the significant uncertainty as to their outcome and effects on the net assets, financial position and results of operations.
② As part of our audit, we assessed, among other things, the process established by thyssenkrupp to ensure that cartel risks and legal
disputes are reported, their outcomes are estimated, and the risks and disputes are accounted for. This assessment also included a
substantive review of the investigations and the pending damages cases in connection with the European elevator and escalator cartel
and the rail cartel. Being aware that estimated values result in an increased risk of accounting misstatements and that management's
recognition and measurement decisions have a direct effect on consolidated profit, we assessed the appropriateness of the carrying
amounts, including by comparing these amounts with historical data, evaluating the consistently applied calculation methodology and
inspecting the underlying documents. Furthermore, we also hold regular meetings with the Company’s legal and compliance
department in order to receive updates on current developments and the reasons for the corresponding estimates of the outcomes of
the proceedings. The development of the aforementioned legal disputes, including management's estimates as to their potential
outcomes, is provided to us by the Company in writing. In addition, we obtained external legal confirmations for selected proceedings
as of the balance sheet date. We were able to follow management’s estimates regarding the accounting for the aforementioned
matters and the measurement of the provisions for pending damages claims.

215

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

③ The Company’s disclosures relating to provisions for litigation and risks are contained in section 15 of the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.
⑤ First-time consolidation of ATLAS Elektronik GmbH
① In fiscal year 2016/2017, thyssenkrupp acquired a 49% interest in Atlas Elektronik GmbH, Bremen (hereinafter “Atlas”), previously
held by the Airbus Group. Prior to that date, thyssenkrupp AG already held a 51% interest in Atlas and managed the company as a
joint venture together with the Airbus Group; that joint venture was included in thyssenkrupp AG’s consolidated financial statements in
accordance with the equity method. After all necessary approvals were obtained, the companies of the Atlas Elektronik Group were
consolidated for the first time as at April 3, 2017. In connection with the first-time consolidation, the previously held 51% interest in
Atlas was remeasured in accordance with IFRS 3, taking into account the purchase price, and the resulting gain of €50 million was
recognized in the consolidated statement of income as other income. The preliminary purchase price allocation resulted in goodwill
amounting to €93 million. This matter was of particular significance for our audit, particularly due to the impacts of the remeasurement
of the previously held interest in Atlas on the statement of income and the complexity of the purchase price allocation.
② To assess whether the accounting treatment of the acquisition of the interest previously held by the Airbus Group was appropriate, we
examined, among other things, as part of our audit, the company law principles as well as the terms of the underlying purchase
agreement. In addition, we assessed the opening statement of financial position and the usability of the preliminary remeasurement of
Atlas’ assets and liabilities performed by an external expert in the course of the purchase price allocation. In this connection, we
gained an understanding of the underlying data on the basis of which the provisional expert opinion was prepared and the
assumptions made and used. Our analysis did not lead to any restrictions with regard to the usability of the provisional expert opinion.
Based on the procedures performed, we were able to verify that the acquisition of the Atlas operations was sufficiently documented
and appropriately presented.
③ The Company’s disclosures relating to the acquisition of the interest in Atlas previously held by the Airbus Group are contained in
section 02 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Other Information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to
§ 289a HGB and § 315 Abs. 5 HGB contained in the section “Legal information” of the group management report representing the part of
the group management report which has not been audited with regards to content.
Other information also comprises the other parts of the annual report – excluding further references to external information – with the
exception of the audited consolidated financial statements, the audited group management report and our auditor’s report and
■ the Responsibility Statement pursuant to § 297 Abs. 2 Satz 4 HGB on the consolidated financial statements and the Responsibility

Statement pursuant to § 315 Abs. 1 Satz 5 HGB on the group management report, and
■ the Corporate Governance Report according to section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code.

Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report do not cover the other information; and
accordingly, we issue neither an audit opinion nor any other form of conclusion thereon.

216

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
■ is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our knowledge obtained in

the audit; or
■ otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management and the Supervisory Board for the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group
Management Report
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which comply, in all material respects, with IFRS,
as adopted by the EU, and the additional German legal requirements applicable under § 315a Abs. 1 HGB, and give a true and fair view of
the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. Furthermore, management
is responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern. In addition, management is responsible to disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern. Furthermore management is
responsible for using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Moreover, management is also responsible for the preparation of the group management report, which as a whole provides a suitable view
of the Group’s position and is consistent in all material respects with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal
requirements and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Furthermore, management is responsible for such
policies and procedures (systems) as management determines are necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report in
accordance with the applicable German legal requirements and to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group
management report.
The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements and the group management report.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Group Management Report
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s
position as well as, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements as well as the findings of our audit,
complies with German legal requirements and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an
auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and the
EU Audit Regulation under consideration of the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by
the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW) as well as under additional consideration of the ISA will
always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial
statements and this group management report.

217

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

Throughout the audit we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism. We also:
■ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report,

■

■
■

■

■

■
■

whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the policies and procedures
relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of those systems.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made
by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our respective audit opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial
statements give a true and fair view of the net assets and financial position as well as the results of operations of the Group in
accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the additional German legal requirements applicable under § 315a Abs. 1 HGB.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to
express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and the group management report. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinions.
Evaluate whether the group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, its compliance with the German
legal requirements and the view it provides of the Group’s position.
Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by management in the group management report. Based on
sufficient and appropriate audit evidence, we hereby, in particular, evaluate the material assumptions used by management as a basis
for the prospective information and the appropriate derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions. We are not issuing
a separate audit opinion on the prospective information or the underlying assumptions. There is a significant, unavoidable risk that
future events deviate significantly from the prospective information.

218

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

We communicate with those charged with governance, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
independence, and related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter.

Other legal and regulatory requirements
Other Disclosures pursuant to Article 10 of the EU Audit Regulation
We were appointed as group auditor by the Annual General Meeting on January 27, 2017. We were engaged by the Supervisory Board on
March 16, 2017. We have acted uninterruptedly as the group auditor of thyssenkrupp AG, Duisburg and Essen, since fiscal year 2012/2013.
We confirm that the audit opinions contained in this auditor’s report are consistent with the additional report to the audit committee
referred to in Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (German Longform Report).

Responsible auditor
The auditor responsible for the audit is Michael Preiß.

Essen, November 20, 2017
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Prof. Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Michael Preiß
Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

219

thyssenkrupp Geschäftsbericht 2016 / 2017
03 Consolidated financial statements | Responsibility statement

Responsibility statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group, and the combined management report includes a
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal
opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group.

Essen, November 14, 2017
thyssenkrupp AG
The Executive Board

Hiesinger
Burkhard

Kaufmann

Kerkhoff

220

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
Additional information

Additional information

222
224
225
227
229

4

Multi-year overview
Other directorships held by Executive Board members
Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members
Glossary
Contact and 2018 / 2019 financial calendar

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Multi-year overview

Multi-year overview
T H YS S E N K R UP P G R O U P
Full Group

Continuing operations
2016 / 2017
vs. 2015 / 2016

2016 / 2017
vs. 2015 / 2016
2012 / 2013 2013 / 2014 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016 2016 / 2017

Change

in % 2015 / 2016 2016 / 2017

Change

in %

Results of operations
Net sales

million €

39,782

41,212

42,778

39,263

42,971

3,709

9

38,000

41,447

3,447

9

Gross profit

million €

4,786

6,205

6,874

6,625

6,210

(415)

(6)

6,579

6,960

381

6
(5)

EBIT

million €

(552)

1,145

1,050

1,189

687

(502)

(42)

1,209

1,150

(59)

EBT

million €

(1,648)

429

485

652

61

(591)

(91)

691

765

73

11

Net income/(loss)

million €

(1,576)

195

268

261

(591)

(852)

--

357

271

(86)

(24)

€

(2.79)

0.38

0.55

0.52

(1.15)

(2)

--

0.55

0.37

0

(33)

Earnings per share (EPS)
Gross margin

%

12.0

15.1

16.1

16.9

14.5

(2)

(14)

17.3

16.8

(1)

(3)

EBIT margin

%

(1.4)

2.8

2.5

3.0

1.6

(1)

(47)

3.2

2.8

0

(13)

EBT margin

%

(4.1)

1.0

1.1

1.7

0.1

(2)

(91)

1.8

1.8

0

1

Return on equity
(before taxes)

%

(65.6)

13.4

14.7

25.0

1.8

(23)

(93)

Personnel expense
per employee

€

53,972

53,351

54,436

57,476

60,876

3,400

6

Sales per employee

€

252,631

257,069

272,805

252,356

269,541

17,185

7

Non-current assets

million €

16,817

15,992

16,220

16,604

14,502

(2,102)

(13)

Current assets

million €

18,480

20,438

19,474

18,468

20,546

2,078

11

Total assets

million €

35,297

36,430

35,694

35,072

35,048

(24)

0

Assets/ liabilities situation

Total equity

million €

2,512

3,199

3,307

2,609

3,404

796

31

Liabilities

million €

32,785

33,231

32,387

32,463

31,643

(820)

(3)

Accrued pension and
similar obligations

million €

7,376

7,122

7,654

8,754

7,924

(831)

(9)

Financial debt non-current million €

6,957

6,651

6,385

6,157

5,326

(831)

(13)

Financial debt current

1,914

1,071

1,570

1,455

1,930

475

33
(5)

million €

Financial debt
non-current/current

million €

8,871

7,722

7,955

7,611

7,255

(356)

Trade accounts payable

million €

3,819

4,945

4,985

5,119

5,729

610

12

%

7.1

8.8

9.3

7.4

9.7

2

31

Equity ratio
Gearing

%

200.6

114.9

103.2

134.2

57.5

(77)

(57)

Inventory turnover

days

61.5

65.8

58.4

58.1

58.3

0

0

Average collection period

days

46.4

50.4

42.7

45.9

48.0

2

5

222

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Multi-year overview

T H YS S E N K R UP P G R O U P
Full Group

Continuing operations
2016/2017
vs. 2015/2016

2012/2013

2013/2014

2014/2015

2015/2016 2016/2017

Change

2016/2017
vs. 2015/2016
in %

2015/2016 2016/2017

Change

in %

Value
management
Capital employed (average)

million €

14,591

15,853

16,106

15,933

16,728

795

5

ROCE

%

(3.8)

7.2

6.5

7.5

4.1

(3)

(45)

Weighted average cost
of capital (WACC)

%

9.0

9.0

9.0

8.0

8.0

0

0

Cash flow/financing
situation
Operating cash flows

million €

786

903

1,300

1,387

610

(777)

(56)

1,310

483

(827)

(63)

Cash flow for investments

million €

(1,411)

(1,260)

(1,235)

(1,387)

(1,666)

(279)

(20)

(1,277)

(1,535)

(258)

(20)

Free cash flow
before divestments

million €

(625)

(357)

65

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

115

198

(798)

(996)

--

228

(855)

(1,083)

--

Free cash flow before M&A
Cash flow from divestments

million €

1,221

1,054

597

191

1,545

1,354

++

189

1,539

1,350

++

Free cash flow

million €

596

697

662

191

489

297

155

222

487

265

119

Cash flows from
financing activities

million €

1,051

(558)

(78)

(658)

784

1,442

++

(685)

866

1,551

++

Cash and cash equivalents

million €

3,833

4,045

4,541

4,111

5,298

1,187

29

Net financial debt

million €

5,038

3,677

3,414

3,500

1,957

(1,543)

(44)

Internal financing capability

4.1

4.4

2.0

1.2

5.0

4

335

Debt to cashflow ratio

6.4

4.1

2.6

2.5

3.2

1

27

million €

772

1,535

(122)

161

59

(102)

(63)

€

—

0.11

0.15

0.15

0.151)

—

—

million €

—

62

85

85

93

—

—

thyssenkrupp AG
Net income/(loss)
Dividend per share
Dividend payout
1)

Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

223

1)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Other directorships held by Executive Board members

Other directorships held by
Executive Board members
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
Chairman

■ BMW AG
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG (Chair)
■ thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG (Chair)
thyssenkrupp (China) Ltd./PR China (Chair)

▫

Oliver Burkhard

▫

PEAG Holding GmbH (Chair)
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG
■ thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH
■ thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG
thyssenkrupp North America, Inc./USA (Chair)

▫

Guido Kerkhoff
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG (Chair)
■ thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH (Chair)

■ Membership of supervisory boards within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (as of September 30, 2017)

▫ Membership of comparable German and non-German control bodies of business enterprises within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
(as of September 30, 2017)

224

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members

Other directorships held by
Supervisory Board members
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Düsseldorf

Tanja Jacquemin, Frankfurt/Main

Chairman // Member of the Shareholders’ Committee

Dipl.-Kauffrau // Head of the Company Policy and Codetermination

of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Department at IG Metall

■ Deutsche Telekom AG (Chair)
■ E.ON SE

■ Porsche Holding Stuttgart GmbH
■ Porsche AG

■ Porsche Automobil Holding SE

■ Vinci Energies Deutschland GmbH

▫ Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (Member of the Shareholders’

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, Essen

Committee)

Former Chairman of the Executive Board of Hochtief AG
Vice Chairman // Trade union secretary at IG Metall

■ Airbus Defence and Space GmbH
■ National-Bank AG

Achim Hass, Kiel

■ RWE AG
■ Voith GmbH & Co. KGaA (Chair)

Markus Grolms, Frankfurt/Main

▫ Airbus SE/Netherlands

(since February 7, 2017)
Power electronics technician // Chairman of the Works Council of
thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH (Kiel) // Chairman of the

Dr. Norbert Kluge, Ratingen

General Works Council of thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH // Vice

Diplom-Sozialwirt // Head of Codetermination Support Department at

Chairman of the Works Council Union Industrial Solutions

the Hans Böckler Foundation

■ Babcock Pensionskasse VvaG

Tekin Nasikkol, Ratingen

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG
■ thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH

Bachelor of Arts (Business Administration) // Vice Chairman of the
Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG (Duisburg-Hamborn)
// Vice Chairman of the General Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel

Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Frankfurt/Main

Europe AG // Vice Chairman of the Group Works Council of

Member of the Executive Board of KfW Bankengruppe

thyssenkrupp AG

■ Deutsche Bahn AG

▫ European Investment Bank (EIB)/Luxembourg (Expert on the
Board of Directors)

Dr. Ralf Nentwig, Essen
Member of the Executive Committee of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen
und Halbach Foundation

▫ Margarethe Krupp-Stiftung für Wohnungsfürsorge (Vice

Susanne Herberger, Dresden
Engineer (FH) – information technology // Chairwoman of the Works

Chairman of the Supervisory Board)

Council of thyssenkrupp Aufzüge GmbH (Dresden) // Chairman of the
Works Council Union Elevator Technology // Vice Chairwoman of the

René Obermann, Berlin

Group Works Council of thyssenkrupp AG

Partner at Warburg Pincus LLC

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG

■ CompuGroup Medical SE
■ Inexio Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. KGaA (Chair)
■ 1&1 Internet SE (Chair)
■ Strato AG (Chair)
■ Allianz Deutschland AG

225

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens, Bochum

Friedrich Weber, Schöndorf

Professor of Business Studies and International Accounting,

Machine setter // Chairman of the General Works Council of

Ruhr University Bochum

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH // Chairman of the Works Council Union

■ LVM Versicherung aG

Components Technology

Peter Remmler, Wolfsburg

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH

Wholesale and export trader // Chairman of the Works Council of
thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH (Braunschweig) // Chairman of the

Isolde Würz, Mülheim/Ruhr

Works Council Union Materials Services

Attorney // General Counsel and Head of Governance, Corporate

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH

Function Legal at thyssenkrupp AG

In the course of the fiscal year 2016 / 2017 Ernst-August Kiel left
the Supervisory Board at the close of January 31, 2017. Where
he held other directorships at the time of departure these are
listed below:

Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow, Düsseldorf
CEO of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG

■ BVV Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes aG

▫ HSBC France SA Paris

Ernst-August Kiel, Blumenthal

Wilhelm Segerath, Duisburg

(until January 31, 2017)

Automotive body maker // Chairman of the Group Works Council of

Fitter // Chairman of the Works Council of thyssenkrupp Marine

thyssenkrupp AG

Systems GmbH (Kiel) // Chairman of the General Works Council of

▫

PEAG Holding GmbH (Member of the Advisory Board)

thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH // Chairman of the Works
Council Union Industrial Solutions

Carsten Spohr, Munich

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG

Chairman of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG

■ Lufthansa Technik AG (Chair)

▫ Dr. August Oetker KG (Member of the Advisory Board)
Dr. Lothar Steinebach, Leverkusen
Former member of the Management Board of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

■ Altana AG
■ Carl Zeiss AG
■ Ralf Schmitz GmbH & Co. KGaA

▫ Diem Client Partner AG/Switzerland (Member of the
Management Board)

Jens Tischendorf, Zurich
Partner and Director of Cevian Capital AG

■ Bilfinger SE

■ Membership of supervisory boards within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (as of September 30, 2017)

▫ Membership of comparable German and non-German control bodies of business enterprises within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
(as of September 30, 2017)

226

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Glossary

Glossary
List of definitions and abbreviations

FCF before divestments

Average collection period

Free cash flow before divestments = Operating cash flows less
cash flow from investing activities excluding cash inflows from
divestments

Trade accounts receivable divided by sales, multiplied by 360
(the lower the ratio, the faster customers pay)

Gearing

Interest-bearing invested capital

Ratio of net financial debt to total equity (the lower the ratio, the
higher the share of total equity in capital employed)

Cluster Management

Greater China

Joint strategic management of purchasing requirements.
Clusters are groups of outsourced products and services that due
to their similarity (e.g. comparable technical requirements or
same suppliers) can be managed jointly.

Mainland China, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Macau and Taiwan

COSO

IFRIC

Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission

International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or
interpretations of the IFRIC

EBIT margin

impact

Earning power in the period under review; ratio of EBIT to sales

Corporate program to enhance performance and execute the
corporate strategy

Capital Employed

IASB

International Accounting Standards Board

EBT

Earnings before taxes

Internal financing strength

Equity ratio

Ratio of operating cash flows to cash flows from investing
activities

Ratio of total equity to balance sheet total (the higher the ratio,
the lower the indebtedness)

Inventory turnover

EMIR audit

Inventories divided by sales, multiplied by 360 (the lower the
ratio, the faster the inventory turnover)

European Market Infrastructure Regulation. Adopted in August
2012. Designed to make over-the-counter trading in derivatives
more transparent and secure. Compliance is audited annually.

227

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information | Glossary

Long Term Incentive plan (LTI)

Rating

Long term variable compensation for Executive Board members
and other selected executives through stock rights

Ratings are used to assess the future ability of a company to
meet its payment obligations on time and in full. They are based
on an analysis of quantitative and qualitative factors.

NAFTA

North American Free Trade Agreement

ROCE

Net financial debt

Return on Capital Employed.
EBIT divided by average capital employed

Difference between the cash and cash equivalents shown in the
statement of financial position plus current other financial assets
available for sale, and non-current and current financial debt.
The corresponding assets and liabilities of the disposal groups –
where applicable – are also taken into account.

STI

Short Term Incentive plan
synergize+

Program for the Groupwide management of all purchasing
activities. Part of the “impact” initiative.

Operating cash flows

Inflow/outflow of cash and cash equivalents outside of investing,
divesting or financing activities

228

thyssenkrupp annual report 2016 / 2017
4 Additional information
| Contact
and 2018
/ 2019 financial calendar
4 Additional
information
| Glossary

Contact and 2018 / 2019 financial calendar
For more information please contact:

2018 / 2019 financial calendar

Communications

January 19, 2018

Telephone: +49 201 844-536043

Annual General Meeting

Fax: +49 201 844-536041
E-mail: press@thyssenkrupp.com

February 14, 2018

Investor Relations

Interim report 1st quarter 2017 / 2018 (October to December)
Conference call with analysts and investors

E-mail: ir@thyssenkrupp.com

May 15, 2018
Institutional investors and analysts
Telephone: +49 201 844-536464

Interim report 1s half 2017 / 2018 (October to March)
Conference call with analysts and investors

Fax: +49 201 8456-531000

August 9, 2018
Private investors
Telephone: +49 201 844-536367

Interim report 9 months 2017 / 2018 (October to June)
Conference call with analysts and investors

Fax: +49 201 8456-531000

November 21, 2018
Published by
thyssenkrupp AG

thyssenkrupp Allee 1, 45143 Essen, Germany
Postfach, 45063 Essen

Annual report 2017 / 2018 (October to September)
Annual press conference
Analysts’ and investors’ conference

February 1, 2019
Telephone: +49 201 844-0

Annual General Meeting

Fax: +49 201 844-536000
E-mail: info@thyssenkrupp.com
www.thyssenkrupp.com

This annual report was published on November 23, 2017.
Produced in-house using firesys.
Photo credits: Nils Röscher, Oliver Helbig and Rainer Kaysers, thyssenkrupp
We thank our employees for being part of our campaign.
Employee on cover: Mark Stricker

Forward-looking statements
This document contains forward-looking statements that reflect management’s
current views with respect to future events. Such statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that are beyond thyssenkrupp’s ability to control or estimate
precisely, such as future market and economic conditions, the behavior of other
market participants, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and
achieve anticipated synergies and the actions of government regulators. If any of
these or other risks and uncertainties occur, or if the assumptions underlying any
of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different
from those expressed or implied by such statements. thyssenkrupp does not
intend or assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to
reflect events or circumstances after the date of these materials.

229

Rounding differences and rates of change
Percentages and figures in this report may include rounding differences. The signs
used to indicate rates of change are based on economic aspects: Improvements
are indicated by a plus (+) sign, deteriorations are shown in brackets ( ). Very high
positive and negative rates of change (≥500% or ≤(100)%) are indicated by ++
and −− respectively.
Variances for technical reasons
Due to statutory disclosure requirements the Company must submit this annual
report electronically to the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). For technical reasons
there may be variances in the accounting documents published in the Federal
Gazette. German and English versions of the annual report can be downloaded
from the internet at www.thyssenkrupp.com. In the event of variances, the German
version shall take precedence over the English translation.

www.thyssenkrupp.com

