engineering.
tomorrow.
together.
Annual Report 2015 / 2016

thyssenkrupp at a glance

ENGINEERING E XPERTISE
FOR OVER

T H YS S E N K R U P P I N F I G U R E S
2015 / 2016

Change in %

Order intake

€ million

37,424

(9)

Sales

€ million

39,263

(8)

Adjusted EBIT

€ million

1,469

(12)

Net income

€ million

261

(2)

€

0.52

(5)

Free cash flow before M & A € million

198

72

3,500

3

Earnings per share

Net financial debt

€ million

tkVA

€ million

(85)

79

Market capitalization

€ million

12,008

35

€

0.15

–

Dividend per share

200

years

~ € 39
billion
sales generated by thyssenkrupp
in fiscal 2015 / 2016

6 regional HQs

78 countries

~ 2,000 locations
BUSINESS ARE AS

156,487
employees work every day to ensure thyssenkrupp
can implement unique projects.
(as at September 30, 2016)

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

Steel
Europe

Steel
Americas

thyssenkrupp’s power lies in its unique technological
versatility. We develop technologies and solutions
for current and future market and customer needs.
One promise always lies at the heart of our work:
we advance our customers with excellent engineering
know-how. Knowledge is our most important raw
material. We share and add to our skills and com­petencies. This makes thyssenkrupp more innova­tive
and effective. We excel at uniting, sharing and growing
our skills and experience with the interests of our
customers.
engineering. tomorrow. together.

11

billion
Mrd.

people take elevators
every single day

Menschen werden Tag für Tag
mit dem Aufzug bewegt

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

Going up? In New York alone, office workers together
spend a total of 16.6 years waiting for elevators each
year. Not only is all that standing around annoying, it
is also a waste of time that could be spent living and
working. In collaboration with Microsoft, thyssenkrupp
is pushing forward the digitization of elevator service.
With these steps toward modernization, we are making
the trip to the top floor safer, more reliable, and faster –
and giving New Yorkers around eight years of their lives
back.
Sascha Frömming, thyssenkrupp Elevator AG , on collaborating
with Microsoft, redefining service, and his aim to equip around
180,000 elevators around the world with MAX in 2017

I.03

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

“AFTER THE TWIN ELEVATOR
AND ROPE-FREE MULTI TECHNOLOGY,
MAX IS THE SECOND CORNERSTONE
OF OUR STRATEGY.”
SASCHA FRÖMMING
thyssenkrupp Elevator

MR. FRÖMMING, WOULD YOU SAY
THYSSENKRUPP IS RE VOLUTIONIZING
SERVICE IN THE ELE VATOR INDUSTRY?

HOW WILL HOLOLENS CHANGE THE
WORK DONE BY OUR 24,000 SERVICE
TECHNICIANS AROUND THE WORLD?

Definitely! We already set the bar very high over

HoloLens will mean that thyssenkrupp service tech-

the last 12 months with M A X – our predictive

nicians can visualize the specific parameters for

maintenance solution for elevators – and this year

an elevator before any action is taken. It provides

were once again able to bring out another innova-

on-site, around-the-clock access to all of the eleva-

tive product for our service range in collaboration

tor’s technical information, plus expert support via

with Microsoft. The interplay between MAX and

image transfer – all of which also comes with the ad-

HoloLens in particular is unique in this combina-

vantage that you keep both hands free at all times.

tion, and is why thyssenkrupp is revolutionizing

Initial trials have shown that the support provided

an entire sector.

by HoloLens makes it possible to complete the work
much faster.

16.6 years
– how long New York office workers spend
waiting for elevators in total each year.

DOES THAT ME AN THAT WE ARE
COMPLE TELY REDEFINING AND IMPROVING
OUR CUSTOMER REL ATIONSHIPS?
That is exactly what we are trying to do. Our goal
is to increase efficiency, increase the availability of
our elevators, and optimize our service so that the
elevators’ technology is always working at its optimum best. This is the only way that we can ensure
the safest and most convenient advancement for
our customers.

I.04

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

WHAT KIND OF INTERPL AY COULD
THERE BE BE T WEEN OUR
CLOUD-SUPPORTED MAINTENANCE
SYSTEM MA X AND HOLOLENS?

BY THE END OF 2017, 180,000 ELE VATORS
WILL NEED TO BE NE T WORKED.
HOW WILL WE ACHIE VE THIS?
This is an ambitious objective that we ourselves set,

To give you one example, our service technicians will

but we are well on our way to achieving it. MAX was

have a complete overview of the elevator in question

launched as the industry’s first-ever predictive main-

at all times. This means that they will know what

tenance solution at the end of 2015, with thousands

was serviced in the past, which upgrades were car-

of systems installed in the pilot countries ( USA ,

ried out, and where perhaps there will be potential

Germany, and Spain) since then. Successful comple-

for optimization in the future. All of this informa-

tion of this stage in the pilot countries by the end of

tion will be presented in a visually appealing way,

2017 will then allow us to conduct further roll-outs

with all technical details for the respective type of

in other countries.

elevator.

WHAT MAKES WORKING IN A TE AM WITH
MICROSOF T SO SPECIAL?
It is the fantastic collaboration that we have with
Microsoft and its experienced software experts that
has enabled us to integrate HoloLens into our service processes. We also managed to adapt HoloLens
apps to our specific requirements with this team
arrangement.

	How is HoloLens used by

thyssenkrupp service technicians?
	
urban-hub.com > ideas >
virtual-elevator-maintenance-service

“Mixed Reality”: HoloLens by Microsoft supports our service technicians both
before and during maintenance

I.05

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

01
A new kind of control technology
is­enabling­thyssenkrupp­to­set­new­
driving experience and dynamics
benchmarks­with­its­electric­power­
steering systems (EPS ).

02
“Steer-by-wire,”­which­avoids­
the need for any mechanical
connection­between­the­steering­
wheel­and­the­wheels,­is­a­
steering system designed with
the future in mind. thyssenkrupp
has­submitted­several­patents­
for it.

A New
and Safe Kind
of­Mobility
04
We­are­developing­a­retractable
steering column that gives the driver
more space in autonomous mode
for future generations of cars and their
advanced driver assistance systems.

03
By­using­components­made­
from­carbon-fi­ber-reinforced­
plastic,­thyssenkrupp­can­
achieve a weight reduction of
up to 60 percent in steering
column components and up to
25 percent in complete steering
columns.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

With electric power steering, thyssenkrupp is not only defining mobility
in its current form, but also accelerating its development.

t

hyssenkrupp is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of
steering systems. One chapter of this success story is set
in Liechtenstein, while another takes place in Hungary. In
the former, Kristof Polmans and his team form a think tank of
innovative engineers and mechatronics engineers, while in
the latter, more than 600 employees program the future of
thyssenkrupp at our software development center close to
Budapest. Working with colleagues across four continents, they
produce (among other things) electric power steering systems
consisting of more than 400 individual par ts and around
300,000 lines of software code – and as such have just as much
code as a space shuttle!
Kristof Polmans, thyssenkrupp head of Innovation and Technology for steering systems, is not only helping to develop the
future world of the automobile, but also working on the complex
reality posed by the present day – a reality that is dominated
by safety, efficiency, environmental protection, and driving experience. “Electric power steering systems,” says Polmans,
“tick all of these boxes very effectively. They consume far less
energy than conventional hydraulic solutions, for example, allowing up to half a liter of gas to be saved on every 100 kilometers traveled.”

dynamics, and driving experience aspects from the very start
of the process. It’s also why we are now among the ‘Top 5’
globally.”
Electric power steering systems have clear advantages. First,
they reduce fuel consumption because the electric motor only
switches on if the driver actually needs steering support. Second, thyssenkrupp engineers have also managed to improve
driving dynamics and experience considerably through a new
combination of hardware and software. Most notably, however,
EPS systems have made it possible to develop driver assistance
systems such as parking and lane change assistants, which in
turn have increased driving safety. “With the traditional hydraulic steering systems from the past, this whole range of assistance systems would not have been conceivable,” Polmans
informs us, summing up the situation. Driver safety will, however, also have a major bearing on the topic of autonomous
driving in the future. “With our precise technical know-how and
our software expertise, we have already achieved such a high
level of sophistication with our systems that our customers already consider us one of their key partners in this future matter.”

Listening to Kristof Polmans, you get the impression that the
coming years are set to revolutionize our idea of mobility and
Polmans’ few words are enough to build a picture of a developtechnological innovations. “We are about to experience a parment that began around two decades ago, namely a change in
adigm shift,” the engineer says. “The function of the automobile
technology that repositioned thyssenkrupp as a producer of
is set to undergo radical change. The exciting task that we have
steering components for hi-tech system suppliers on the market,
as a team is to figure out how thyssenkrupp, as a steering expert
having been known for cold forging until the 1980s. This transand system provider, gets involved in this development.”
formation from mechanics to mechatronics began with the proPolmans is referring to steer-by-wire systems, which use redunduction of steering columns in the 1990s,
dancies to ensure operation is as error-free
and was followed by the company’s first se“THE FUNC TIONALIT Y OF
and safe as with airplanes. He is also talking
ries of electrical steering systems in 2010.
about single-wheel steering and wheels that
THE CAR IS SE T TO CHANGE
An electric motor supports the steering movecan be rotated 90 degrees to ensure better
COMPLE TELY. ”
Kristof Polmans, head of Innovation
ment in these systems. The focus initially was
navigation of urban areas in the future, about
and Technology for steering systems
on models in which the electric motor and
retractable steering columns in semiautonocontrol unit are positioned horizontally on the
mous vehicles, which provide the driver with
steering gear (rack EPS). Another version was then developed
a space for their laptop and coffee, and about the integration of
for smaller automobiles, in which the electric motor is installed
chassis and powertrain systems that will make it possible to
on the upper steering column (column EPS). We are now procompletely rethink the main functions of the automobile. Kristof
ducing all major electric power steering systems. “thyssenkrupp
Polmans himself is optimistic about what comes after tomorrow.
has not only introduced electric power steering for new vehicle
“We will define this development – after all, thyssenkrupp is most
classes,” says Polmans, “but also made optimal use of the difcertainly in a different league to a few years ago!”
ferent waves of technology in different versions and designs.
We invested in and implemented effective development work
What sort of work is thyssenkthat impresses our customers because we considered safety,
rupp doing with “steer-by-wire”

steering?

I.07

	engineered.thyssenkrupp.com >
a-driverless-future

Attention to Detail on a Grand Scale
thyssenkrupp’s groundbreaking industrial
components have set new records.

1. Wind power plants
A logistical masterstroke
and a contribution
to climate protection:
we have developed
150 gondola bearings
and 450 blade bearings
for Gemini, one of the
largest offshore wind
farms in the world.
Each one of these is
a precision product
adapted to conditions
on the high seas and
customized for the
extremely large-scale
facilities.

2. Cruise ships
The Quantum of the
Seas measures around
348 meters from bow
to stern. The jewel in
the crown on this cruise
ship is “North Star,”
its seven-metric-ton
capsule providing views
of the surroundings,
which gives passengers
the chance to float more
than 90 meters above
the sea. It is one of our
slewing bearings that
gives the capsule the
stability it needs.

3. Tunnel construction
Switzerland’s new
Gotthard Base Tunnel
was officially opened in
summer 2016. Our
23-metric-ton slewing
bearings, measuring five
meters in diameter, were
used to keep the cutter
heads stable on the
tunnel boring machines
and as such played their
part in creating the
longest train tunnel in the
world.

4. Construction
machines
One in five chain-drive
civilian vehicles
world­wide is fitted
with thyssenkrupp
components. We
also produce special
designs, including
engine components
and slewing bearings
for turntables on
construction machinery.

I.08

5. Oil-drilling vessels
As heavy as a blue
whale: we built the
largest segmented roller
bearings in the world,
measuring 18 meters in
diameter and weighing
190 metric tons. These
steel rings can keep two
oil-drilling vessels stable
in the water, even when
the sea is rough, and
prevent the pipelines
from twisting.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

The aim of Carbon2Chem is to collect off-gases
from steel production and use these as the
raw material for chemical products – including
the CO2 contained therein.

In doing so, thyssenkrupp is
making an essential contribution to
climate protection and the energy
transition.

Carbon
2 Chem
Carbon2Chem will use surplus electricity from renewable energies as a
source of energy.

Fuels, plastics, and fertilizers
are produced as a result of the
Carbon2Chem process.

T

he idea behind Carbon2Chem in a nutshell is to synchronize industries so that the intelligent connection of steel
production, the manufacture of chemical raw materials,
and the storage of volatile renewable energies significantly
reduce CO 2 emissions from steelworks as of 2030. This visionar y climate protection and energy transition project was
initiated by thyssenkrupp and is breaking new ground: “In the
future, breakthrough innovations will only be possible at points
where different industries meet,” says Dr. Wiebke Lüke. “This
is where Carbon2Chem can help.” Lüke is a project manager at
thyssenkrupp. Considering the partnership with 17 different
universities, research institutions, and businesses, involving
more than 250 people, this project poses a real challenge.
“Taking this cross-industry approach not only enables us to
reduce CO 2 emissions during steel production and qualify new
raw materials for the chemical industry, but also allows us to
achieve an economic optimum that industries would not be able
to reach individually,” says Dr. Ralph Kleinschmidt, project
coordinator at thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions. He believes
that Carbon2Chem could give thyssenkrupp an edge in the long
term. “There are between 50 and 70 steelmaking locations
worldwide to which Carbon2Chem could be applied, but it would

also be suitable for cement plants and power plants. In other
words, it gives us the option to open up new markets and create
value-added chains.” The potential for success is high since the
underlying chemical processes and the required technologies
are largely known already. The collaborative project has received
more than 60 million euros of funding from the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research.
But it is still very early days for the project. Kleinschmidt is
currently coordinating the planning and construction of the
“technical center” at the thyssenkrupp Steel Europe premises
in Duisburg, Germany. This center will have the task of conducting simulation-based testing for the network and investigating
individual plant sections. Wiebke Lüke is also working on the
construction and subsequent implementation of the solutions
under real smelting gas conditions. Her favorite aspect of the
project? “Orchestrating our partners’ different motivations so
that we reach our collective goal: cost-effective CO 2 reduction.”

W hat concrete climate protection activities is thyssenkrupp
undertaking?
	thyssenkrupp.com > company > innovation >
technologies-for-the-energy-transition

I.09

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

The
Networkers
thyssenkrupp’s networks bring together expertise in
an optimal fashion, ensuring we are able to implement
projects such as the largest job in the “cement world”
currently taking place in the deserts of Saudi Arabia.
Five colleagues tell us about their teamwork.

How is Industrial Solutions
networked worldwide?
thyssenkrupp-industrial-solutions.com

I.10

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

“Lots of sweat but no tears” is a good way of describing the work done
by Dr. Markus Sauer and his colleague Marcus Fritz. The two project
managers are used to working in temperatures of 50 degrees Celsius at
this point, having swapped their German offices for the heat of Saudi
Arabia on multiple occasions over the past year. Their project was set up
to build a new plant around 80 kilometers from Riyadh, the Saudi capital.
Sauer and Fritz have presented their client, the Yamama Cement Company,
with concepts and technical solutions and have since been accompanying
their team through the first phase of this mammoth project that will see a
completely new factory plus infrastructure built, involving machinery with
a shipping weight of more than 68,000 metric tons, more than 280,000 m³
of cement and in excess of 26,000 metric tons of steel. Communication
among themselves, but also with their network of Arabian, Asian, and
European colleagues has been “as constant and intensive as you would
expect given the scale,” Dr. Sauer says. Marcus Fritz, meanwhile, adds
that the most rewarding aspect for him has been the intercultural experience – the level of trust and respect across the entire team being “simply
remarkable.”

Marcus Fritz, commercial
project­manager,­Germany

Teams don’t get much more international than Thomas Dreiling’s. His
team has a mixture of Asian, Arabian, European, and American roots. He
himself is responsible for closely coordinating thyssenkrupp’s Saudi
Arabian subsidiaries, the project team, and the site management team of
the future Yamama plant. “We have a multicultural setup so that we
can attend to the needs of the different nationalities among our clientele,”
says Dreiling. “We’re well connected, too, and work closely with our
head offices in Germany, while at the same time also enlisting the help of
expediting teams in Saudi Arabia and China to guarantee quality and
meet deadlines.” What can you do to break down cultural and national
borders and bring everyone together? “Be open to discussing topics,
and focus on the client in doing so.” This is the only way you will find
solutions fast and give customer requirements the kind of “high-quality”
consideration they need.

Thomas Dreiling, CEO­of­thyssenkrupp­
Industrial­Solutions­Saudi­Arabia

Dr. Markus Sauer, technical
project­manager,­Germany

1
2
3

4

Mukul Khare, head­of­the­Engineering­
Center,­Pune,­India

Dennis Wolters, fi­nancial­
controller,­Vietnam

If anyone knows every last detail of the cement plant currently being
constructed, that person is Mukul Khare. Using a 3-D software environment
at the Engineering Center in Pune, he and his team are planning the
project, the construction of 90 conveyor belts, and drafting building plans
for pipelines and shafts. Khare is part of the global thyssenkrupp
network for plant construction. By mid-2017, he and his colleagues will
have invested around 90,000 man-hours in Yamama – a real balancing
act in terms of resources and time management: “For a project of this
scale, it is critical for a certain amount of preliminary work to have been
carried out even before the contract comes into effect, and luckily we managed to do so.” This meant the team was able to shorten the implementation time and lower costs. Effective communication with the teams in
Vietnam and Beckum is key to the project’s success for Khare; they utilize
all the information channels available to them at their sites and in doing
so keep each other up to date on the progress of their work every day.

Without Dennis Wolters and his colleagues in Hanoi, part of the new
cement plant in Yamama would even have had to manage without a roof,
on account of the large amount of complex roof constructions that
Industrial Solutions Vietnam supplies for warehouse buildings and blending
beds in Saudi Arabia. It has not always been easy to find good suppliers
locally who are able to participate in multinational projects of this scale,
according to Wolters. “Suppliers also need to be able to meet deadline
and quality requirements. That said, we now have a network of partners
in place that can offer competitive prices.” His staying power has definitely paid off – a feat he is proud of. “It is fantastic that we can go down
this route with our Vietnamese partners, because they are highly motivated and see the challenge as an opportunity for growth. Working in a
team with them has enabled us to stand our ground against fierce
competition from China.”

I.11

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Magazine

Energy for the Day after Tomorrow

Key technologies of the future are dependent on the battery industry, the only
issue being that Germany still needs a factory to produce the battery cells.
thyssenkrupp is giving its backing to the construction of one such plant. In this
article, Ingo Steinkrüger, CEO thyssenkrupp System Engineering, tells
us about the potential waiting to be tapped on this market, and the forces
driving innovation.

G

ermany needs a battery cell factory. Industrial production
of battery cells is “an important part of preserving
Germany’s systems expertise and securing the country’s
position as an industrial location in the future,” according to the
German National Platform for Electric Mobility set up by the
German government. Battery systems today account for around
one-third of an electric car’s added value, with the battery cells
alone accounting for between 60 and 80 percent of this. As such,
the market potential for this key technology is just as large.

duction of cells and batteries worldwide, including to Asia. Among
other things, we cover the assembly of large-format lithium-ion
cells, the assembly of battery packs and testing in our product
range. We have around 350 employees planning and constructing cell and battery assembly plants at our center of excellence
in Hohenstein-Ernstthal, Saxony, Germany. Their task is to optimize added value and cost-effectiveness while maintaining a high
level of safety and quality. The engineers in our development
departments are constantly improving the plants using the new
knowledge they acquire. Know-how from the
Furthermore, the battery industry will also supINNOVATION AND THE VERY
automotive sector also stands us in good
ply essential products for other key technolostead here. As system partners, we are able
CORE OF GERMAN INDUSTRY
gies of the future. The success of the energy DEPEND ON CELLS BEING PRO- to successfully combine tried-and-tested prorevolution is very much reliant on us being able
cesses from the automotive sector with exterDUCED FOR BAT TERIES.
to save electricity. Asian cell manufacturers
nal expert knowledge from the battery and cell
have already realized this and are expanding their production caindustry and, via our center of excellence and our research and
pacities worldwide. If Germany wishes to live up to its reputation
development work, keep building on this expertise.
as a driving force behind innovation and win the head-to-head
race for the best technical solutions, it needs to be competitive in
We sell and produce this know-how, in the form of plants,
cell production.
research, and development worldwide, in order to get as close
as possible to our customers and play an active role in shaping
The expertise is already available. thyssenkrupp System Engitechnical progress.
neering is already producing and supplying systems for the pro-

I.12

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Contents

Contents
I.01
I.02
I.06
I.08
I.09
I.10
I.12

Magazine
MAX elevator service
A new and safe kind of mobility
Attention to detail on a grand scale
Carbon2Chem
The networkers
Energy for the day after tomorrow

01
02
03
07
08
10
17
30

To our shareholders
Letter to shareholders
Executive Board
Supervisory Board
Report by the Supervisory Board
Corporate governance
thyssenkrupp stock

02
32
33
33
41
79

Combined management report
Preliminary remarks
Fundamental information about the Group
Report on the economic position
Annual financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG
83 Technology and innovations
87 Environment, climate and energy
88 Purchasing
90 Employees
94 Compliance
97 Subsequent events
98 Forecast, opportunity and risk report
123 Legal information

03
133 Consolidated financial statements
134 Consolidated statement of
financial position
136 Consolidated statement of income
137 Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
138 Consolidated statement of
changes in equity
139 Consolidated statement of cash flows
140 Notes to the consolidated financial
statements
230 Independent Auditors’ Report
232 Responsibility Statement

04
233 Additional information
234 Multi-year overview
236 Other directorships held by
Executive Board members
237 Other directorships held by
Supervisory Board members
239 Glossary
241 Contact and 2017 / 2018
financial calendar

Our fiscal year begins on October 01 and ends on
September 30 of the following year.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
To our shareholders

To our shareholders

03
07
08
10
17
30

Letter to shareholders
Executive Board
Supervisory Board
Report by the Supervisory Board
Corporate governance
thyssenkrupp stock

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

Letter to shareholders

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, CEO, talks with employees at the Elevator Technology
development center in Gijón/Spain

The past fiscal year 2015 / 2016 was not an easy one for thyssenkrupp. High import and price pressure
had a major impact on our materials businesses, particularly in the first half of the year. That was also
why we had to revise our full-year forecast after six months. The recovery on the materials markets,
especially in Europe, came later than originally expected and from a lower price level. The effects of
this overshadowed the progress achieved by our capital goods businesses.
But the situation on the materials markets in the past fiscal year also shows that we must continue
with thyssenkrupp’s transformation into a strong industrial group. Our aim is to increase our share
of capital goods and service businesses and achieve profitable growth. That will enable us to
generate strong and stable earnings, value added and cash flow for you as owners.

3

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

Despite the difficult conditions, we achieved progress in important areas of our Strategic Way
Forward in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. Although we failed to meet our original earnings target, in
the course of the fiscal year we improved from quarter to quarter, and results in the 4th quarter
were higher than a year earlier. With adjusted EBIT of €1.47 billion we achieved our revised
forecast. Our efficiency program “impact” was once again very successful, with EBIT effects of
almost €1 billion clearly exceeding our target. And we once again generated net income of
€261 million. Thanks to a Groupwide team effort we again managed to achieve positive cash flow –
despite the weak market environment and customers’ reluctance to award major projects in the
chemical plant engineering and naval shipbuilding sectors.
Overall, thyssenkrupp’s performance and risk profile improved further in many areas in the past
fiscal year. Components Technology reported higher adjusted EBIT and margins and acquired
major orders for new technologies. Elevator Technology achieved further growth and earnings
improvements and reached important strategic milestones. Industrial Solutions felt the effects of
the difficult market environment for raw materials in its order intake and therefore prepared an
extensive transformation program to increase efficiency and strengthen customer focus. Due to the
longer cycles involved in project business it will be some time before these measures take full effect.
In the short term we are therefore concentrating on stabilizing order intake and cash flows at
Industrial Solutions. In the long term we continue to see attractive growth opportunities.
Materials Services introduced numerous measures for the digital transformation and made
important progress in the implementation of its business plan for the stainless steel producer AST
in Italy. Steel Europe initiated a program to secure its long-term competitiveness and aligned its
management structures more strongly to customers and markets. Steel Americas managed to
increase output and shipments, strengthen its market position, further significantly reduce losses
and generate positive cash flow. Moreover we received the operating license from the Brazilian
authorities. By acquiring the minority shares in CSA held by Vale, we significantly reduced
complexity and risks and gave ourselves greater room to maneuver for the further development of CSA.
As you can see, despite the difficult conditions we further improved the stability of thyssenkrupp in
the past fiscal year, with net income and free cash flow matching or slightly exceeding the prioryear levels. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will therefore once again propose the
payment of a dividend of €0.15 per share to the Annual General Meeting. This cannot be a
satisfactory dividend level over the medium term for you as shareholders or for us. However, we
believe it is a balanced and appropriate proposal. It takes into account the exceptionally weak
materials environment in the 1st half, our significant performance improvement in the 2nd half, the
prospect of a significant earnings improvement in the fiscal year now under way, and our balance
sheet needs.

4

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

We are convinced that we are on the right track. Our minimum long-term target of at least €2 billion
adjusted EBIT and clearly positive free cash flow remains unchanged. Our forecast adjusted EBIT of
around €1.7 billion in the current fiscal year will move us significantly closer to this goal.
There are two main reasons for our confidence:
First: We are not relying on a recovery of prices and markets. Instead we are improving the things
we can influence ourselves in all areas. Each business area has clear targets based on sector
benchmarks. All our units are working systematically on numerous measures to improve their
performance. Industrial Solutions and Steel Europe have also initiated extensive change programs.
The second reason for my confidence is our innovation projects. We are now reaping the benefits of
our consistent investment in research and development – even in periods of crisis – and continuous
year-on-year increases in innovation spending over the last five years. Since the 2011 / 2012 fiscal
year we have invested more than €3.5 billion in research. Take our automotive components
business, for example: As a leading supplier of steering systems we have initiated a fundamental
change in technology – from purely mechanical to electric power-assisted steering. This technology
is already a prerequisite for driver assist systems and in the future will play an important role in
autonomous driving. After years of intensive development work we are now building factories
around the world for volume production of these systems. For the coming years we have already
booked orders for this technology worth more than €7 billion.
Innovations are the key to our company’s future. So as a strong industrial group we have the clear
goal to systematically utilize the opportunities offered by digitization. We are investing massively in
our IT infrastructure and harmonizing and automating our business processes. In many areas, from
steelmaking and automotive component production to elevator technology and plant engineering,
we are already translating “big data” and the “internet of things” into business models – not just in
pilot projects, but also in day-to-day industrial applications.
Central to all our work at thyssenkrupp is our brand promise: We advance our customers. We do
this by understanding the current and future needs of our customers and offering solutions based
on our engineering expertise. One good example is MAX, our innovation for predictive elevator
maintenance. MAX is a “big data” application that significantly reduces elevator down times. For
this we have combined our capabilities with those of a strong partner, in this case Microsoft, in
keeping with our new slogan “engineering.tomorrow.together.”. The magazine section at the
beginning of this Annual Report explains exactly how MAX works.

5

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Letter to shareholders

For us, “engineering. tomorrow. together.” also means working on sustainable solutions. Here are
a few examples:
thyssenkrupp is making an important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The
Group has now been ranked as a world leader in climate protection by the non-profit organization
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). CDP has placed thyssenkrupp on its global “Climate A
List”, which includes fewer than 200 companies worldwide. And for the fifth time in a row since
2012 the Group is also rated as one of the best companies in the region Germany, Austria and
Switzerland.
CDP’s ranking recognizes thyssenkrupp’s consistently high level of transparency with regard to
climate protection as well as the Group’s climate protection performance. One medium-term target
is to improve energy efficiency by around 3.5 terawatt hours by 2020. That is equivalent to the
output of more than three large commercial offshore wind farms and emissions reductions of
around 1.3 million tons.
Another example is Carbon2Chem. The aim of this joint project, in which thyssenkrupp is
collaborating with further partners, is to convert process gases from steel production into base
materials for the chemical industry. We have started on the construction of a technical center,
where the processes will be tested on an industrial scale. If the project is a success, CO2 emissions
from steel production will be reduced significantly, and steelmaking will be placed on a new
sustainable footing.
thyssenkrupp held up well in a difficult fiscal year. The situation on the materials markets
overshadowed much of our progress; but it also validates our strategy. With renewed net income
and positive free cash flow your company has clearly gained in stability and competitiveness. For
the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year we are cautiously optimistic of achieving further performance
improvements. We will continue to work together and put all our efforts into achieving this goal.
Thank you for your trust and your support.
Yours,

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
Chief Executive Officer
Essen, November 2016

6

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Executive Board

Executive Board

Clockwise from top right:

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
*1960 | Chairman |
Appointed until September 2020

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Oliver Burkhard

*1962 | Responsible for Legal & Compliance |
Appointed until January 2022

Résumés of the Executive Board members can be found under
thyssenkrupp.com > Company > Management > Executive Board

7

*1972 | Responsible for Human
Resources, Labor Director |
Appointed until January 2021

Guido Kerkhoff
*1967 | Responsible for Finance |
Appointed until March 2021

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board
Members of the Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Düsseldorf

Dr. Norbert Kluge, Ratingen

Chairman // Member of the Shareholders’ Committee

Diplom-Sozialwirt // Head of Codetermination Support dept.

of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

at the Hans Böckler Foundation

Dr. Sabine Maaßen, Dinslaken

Tekin Nasikkol, Ratingen

(until March 15, 2016)

(since June 1, 2016)

Vice Chairwoman // Legal Counsel, IG Metall

Business Administration (Bachelor of Arts) // Vice Chairman of
the Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Martin Dreher, Heilbronn
(until May 31, 2016)

Dr. Ralf Nentwig, Essen

Retail clerk // Chairman of the Works Council of

Member of the Executive Committee of the Alfried Krupp

thyssenkrupp System Engineering GmbH (Heilbronn) //

von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation

Chairman of the Works Council Union

René Obermann, Berlin

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions

Partner at Warburg Pincus LLC

Markus Grolms, Frankfurt/Main
Vice Chairman (since April 8, 2016) //

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens, Bochum

IG Metall trade union secretary

Professor of Business Studies and International
Accounting, Ruhr University Bochum

Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Frankfurt/Main
Peter Remmler, Wolfsburg

Member of the Executive Board of KfW Bankengruppe

Wholesale and export trader // Chairman of the

Susanne Herberger, Dresden

Works Council of thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH (Braunschweig) //

Engineer (FH) – information technology // Vice Chairwoman

Chairman of the Works Council Union

of the Group Works Council // Chairwoman of the Works

thyssenkrupp Materials Services

Council Union thyssenkrupp Elevator Technology

Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow, Düsseldorf
Tanja Jacquemin, Frankfurt/Main

Chairwoman of the Management Board of HSBC Trinkaus &

(since March 30, 2016)

Burkhardt AG

Dipl.-Betriebswirtin // Head of the Company Policy and

Wilhelm Segerath, Duisburg

Codetermination Department at IG Metall

Automotive body maker // Chairman of the Group Works Council of

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, Essen

thyssenkrupp AG

Vice President of the Federation of German Industries

Carsten Spohr, Munich

(Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie e.V.)

Chairman of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Ernst-August Kiel, Blumenthal
Fitter // Chairman of the General Works Council of thyssenkrupp

Dr. Lothar Steinebach, Leverkusen

Marine Systems // Chairman of the Works Council Union

Former member of the Management Board of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions

8

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Supervisory Board

Jens Tischendorf, Zurich

Personnel Committee

Partner and Director of Cevian Capital AG

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)
Markus Grolms

Fritz Weber, Schöndorf

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Machine setter // Chairman of the General Works Council of

Wilhelm Segerath

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH // Chairman of the Works Council

Audit Committee

Union thyssenkrupp Components Technology

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens (Chair)

Isolde Würz, Mülheim/Ruhr

Markus Grolms

Attorney // Head of Governance, Corporate Function Legal at

Tanja Jacquemin

thyssenkrupp AG

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
Dr. Ralf Nentwig
Wilhelm Segerath

Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee

Supervisory Board Committees

Dr. Lothar Steinebach (Chair)
Markus Grolms

Executive Committee

Susanne Herberger

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Markus Grolms

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Peter Remmler

Wilhelm Segerath

Wilhelm Segerath
Jens Tischendorf

Mediation Committee under
§ 27 (3) Codetermination Act

Nomination Committee

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner (Chair)

Markus Grolms

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel

Dr. Ralf Nentwig

Wilhelm Segerath

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens

9

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

Report by the Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Dear Shareholders,
In the following I would like to inform you about the work of the Supervisory Board in the
2015 / 2016 fiscal year:

Cooperation between Supervisory Board and Executive Board
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016 the Supervisory Board again regularly advised the Executive Board on
the management of the Company and continuously supervised its conduct of business. We
satisfied ourselves that the Executive Board’s work complied with all legal and regulatory
requirements at all times. The Executive Board fulfilled its duty to inform and furnished us with
regular written and verbal reports containing up-to-date and comprehensive information on all
issues of relevance to the Company and the Group relating to strategy, planning, business
performance, the risk situation and compliance. This also included information on variances
between actual performance and previously reported targets as well as on budget variances
(follow-up reporting). In the committees and in full Supervisory Board meetings, the members of
the Supervisory Board always had ample opportunity to critically examine the reports and

10

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

resolution proposals submitted by the Executive Board and contribute suggestions. In particular,
we discussed intensively and examined the plausibility of all transactions of importance to the
Company on the basis of written and verbal reports by the Executive Board. On numerous
occasions the Supervisory Board dealt at length with the risk situation of the Company, the liquidity
planning and the equity situation. Thanks to an analysis of the value potential of the Group’s
businesses and the opportunities and risks of strategic steps, critical operating issues were
presented to the Supervisory Board in a clear and differentiated way. Where required by law, the
Articles of Association or the rules of procedure for the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board
provided its approval of individual business transactions.
In the periods between meetings, the Supervisory Board Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit
Committee and the Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee engaged in a close and regular
exchange of views and information with the Executive Board and were informed about major
developments. The Supervisory Board Chairman and Audit Committee and Strategy, Finance and
Investment Committee Chairmen reported on important findings immediately in the following
Supervisory Board or Committee meeting.
Before the Supervisory Board meetings the shareholder and the employee representatives each
held separate meetings to discuss the agenda items. There were no indications of conflicts of
interest of Executive Board and Supervisory Board members, which must be disclosed to the
Supervisory Board immediately and reported to the Annual General Meeting.

Supervisory Board meetings
Four Supervisory Board meetings were held in the reporting year. The average attendance rate at
meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees was 97%. No Supervisory Board member
attended fewer than half the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the relevant committees. The
members of the Executive Board took part in the Supervisory Board meetings unless otherwise
determined by the Supervisory Board Chairman.
In its first meeting in the reporting year on November 18, 2015 the Supervisory Board dealt firstly
with the business and earnings situation in fiscal year 2014 / 2015. A further item on the agenda
focused on the parent-company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 2015. On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and after discussion with
the auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC),
the Supervisory Board approved the consolidated and parent-company financial statements for the
2014 / 2015 fiscal year. Further, the corporate and investment planning for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal
year was adopted. We also discussed and adopted the agenda for the Annual General Meeting on
January 29, 2016 and addressed Executive Board matters. Finally we discussed the results of the
Supervisory Board efficiency review, and in particular what measures could further improve the
efficiency of Supervisory Board work. Alongside visits to the Group’s production sites to gain a
direct on-site impression of production conditions and the work of the management as part of the
learning program for the Supervisory Board, measures included improved electronic access to
meeting documents, and the performance of the efficiency review in electronic form. These
measures were subsequently implemented.

11

97%
Average attendance rate at
Supervisory Board and committee
meetings was 97%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

On January 28, 2016, the day before the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory Board members
convened for a meeting in which the Executive Board first reported on the situation of the Group.
Other topics were the next day’s Annual General Meeting and questions relating to Executive Board
compensation. In addition the Head of Corporate Function Technology, Innovation & Sustainability,
Dr. Reinhold Achatz, gave a detailed report on the activities and strategy of his Corporate Function,
including indirect financial targets, which was subsequently discussed by the full Supervisory
Board.
In the meeting on May 19, 2016 the Supervisory Board first discussed the Group’s business
situation and Strategic Way Forward on the basis of a comprehensive report by the Executive Board.
A further main topic at this meeting were the activities and strategy of the Corporate Function
Human Resources Strategy including the personnel development programs and the Corporate
Function People Development & Executives Management, which we discussed on the basis of a
detailed report by the heads of these functions, Peter Dollhausen and Dr. Detlef Hunsdiek. Under
transactions requiring approval we dealt in particular with the sale of non-operating real estate.
Other topics were the 2015 EMIR compliance audit pursuant to § 20 WpHG, the implementation of
the governance@thyssenkrupp project in the Group, and Executive Board matters.
In the Supervisory Board meeting on September 7, 2016 the Group’s operating situation and
Strategic Way Forward with particular reference to the business areas were again a focus of
discussion. As in previous years, current developments in corporate governance were again a topic
in this year’s September meeting. After reviewing observance of the recommendations and
suggestions of the Corporate Governance Code we resolved to submit an unqualified declaration of
conformity. In addition we adapted the rules of procedure for the Executive Board, the Supervisory
Board, the Audit Committee, the Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee, the Executive
Committee, and the Personnel Committee, and adopted new rules of procedure for the Nomination
Committee and the Mediation Committee. We also reviewed the set concrete targets for the
composition of the Supervisory Board and the implementation thereof and adjusted the targets. As
part of Supervisory Board training, Dr. Donatus Kaufmann gave a presentation on “Current legal
developments on the work of the supervisory board” and Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens on the subject
“New transparency and accounting regulations – consequences for supervisory board work” which
were subsequently discussed.
At thyssenkrupp compliance is a central component of good corporate governance and means
much more than just abiding by the law: At thyssenkrupp compliance is a question of mindset. For
this reason at each of its meetings the Supervisory Board obtained a detailed report on compliance
from the Executive Board and discussed the strategic compliance measures at thyssenkrupp at
length.

12

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

Report on the work of the committees
The primary task of the Supervisory Board’s six committees is to prepare decisions and topics for
discussion at the full meetings. The Supervisory Board has delegated decision-making powers to
the committees where this is legally permissible. The powers of the committees and the
requirements on committee members are set out in the rules of procedure for the respective
committees. The chairmen of the committees provided the Supervisory Board with regular detailed
reports on the work of the committees in the reporting year. With the exception of the Audit
Committee and the Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee, all committees are chaired by the
Supervisory Board Chairman. The compositions of the six committees are shown in the section
“Supervisory Board”.
The Executive Committee (Praesidium) met four times in the past fiscal year. In addition to preparing
the full Supervisory Board meetings, the main subjects of deliberation were the financial position
and earnings performance of the Group, the strategic development of the individual business areas,
and the Groupwide projects to optimize effectiveness, efficiency and performance. As chairman of
the committee, I was also in close contact with the other members of the Executive Committee
outside meetings to agree on special projects.
The Personnel Committee held five meetings in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year to prepare the personnel
decisions of the Supervisory Board. Where required, resolutions were passed or recommendations
for resolutions were made to the Supervisory Board. The meetings addressed general Executive
Board matters as well as discussions on the reappointment of Dr. Donatus Kaufmann as Executive
Board member for Legal & Compliance and – in fulfilment of our duty of care – succession
planning. In addition, proposals for establishing the performance bonus and additional bonus and
the structuring of pensions for the members of the Executive Board were dealt with. Details of
Executive Board compensation are presented in the compensation report.
The Audit Committee met five times in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. Alongside Executive Board
members, the meetings were also attended by representatives of the auditors PwC, who were
elected by the 2016 Annual General Meeting and subsequently appointed by the Audit Committee.
The auditors declared to the Audit Committee that no circumstances exist that could lead to the
assumption of prejudice on their part. The Audit Committee obtained the required auditors’
statement of independence, reviewed their qualification, concluded the fee agreement, and
selected the focus theme for the audit for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. In addition, a Groupwide
survey of auditing quality was initiated; the results of this as well as the additional services
provided by PwC alongside the audit of the financial statements were discussed in the Audit
Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was also in regular contact with the auditors
between meetings. Heads of corporate functions were also available to provide reports and take
questions in committee meetings on individual agenda items.

13

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

In the reporting year the committee’s work focused on examining the 2015 / 2016 parent-company and
consolidated financial statements along with the combined management report, the proposal for the
appropriation of net income and the auditors’ reports, and preparing the Supervisory Board resolution
on these items. In addition, the interim financial reports (half-year and quarterly reports) were also
discussed in detail and adopted, taking into account the auditors’ review report. The Audit Committee
further monitored the accounting process and discussed the effectiveness of the internal control system,
the risk management system and the internal auditing system. It also dealt with the main legal disputes
and compliance in the Group. In addition in the presence of the head of Group internal auditing the
committee discussed the internal audit results, the audit processes and the audit planning of the Group
internal auditing team for the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year. Further main topics were the equity capital and
rating situation, particularly in view of the interest rate situation, the revision of the earnings forecast in
the course of the year, the contract management project, the 2015 EMIR compliance audit in
accordance with § 20 WpHG, and the status of the tax inspection. Regular reports were provided on
the status of the corporate initiatives daproh, daproh HR/HRT, unITe, and GSS.
In an additional meeting in September 2016 the committee members dealt in detail with current
legal and accounting developments, the management of product risks, the systems and
methodology of the corporate initiatives “impact” and “synergize+”, and a progress report on the
implementation of the new revenue recognition standard IFRS 15. In addition, PwC reported in
detail on the new rules for audit reports and on procedures and quality management in connection
with the audit of the financial statements. The amendment of the audit policy was also discussed
and the catalogue of non-audit services by the financial statement auditor subject to approval was
established together with the budget for the performance of non-audit services for the 2016 / 2017
fiscal year.
The Strategy, Finance and Investment Committee held five meetings in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year.
Discussions focused on the strategic development of thyssenkrupp’s business model. The committee
also discussed in detail the reports presented previously to the Supervisory Board on the business
activities and strategy of the individual business areas and corporate functions. Further, the Group’s
corporate and investment planning for the reporting year was discussed, taking into account the Group’s
current rating and financial situation, and corresponding Supervisory Board resolutions were prepared.
The members of the Nomination Committee convened for one meeting in the past fiscal year. A
focus of the discussions was succession planning for the Supervisory Board taking into account the
recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code and the Supervisory Board’s targets
for its own composition.
There was once again no cause to convene the Mediation Committee under § 27 (3)
Codetermination Act in the reporting year.

14

Strategic development of
thyssenkrupp’s business
model was the central topic.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

Corporate governance and declaration of conformity
Taking into account the version of the Code of May 5, 2015 which remained unchanged in 2016,
the Executive Board and Supervisory Board issued a declaration of conformity which has been
permanently available on the Company’s website since October 1, 2016. In addition the Executive
Board – also on behalf of the Supervisory Board – reports on corporate governance at
thyssenkrupp in the corporate governance report and the corporate governance declaration.

Audit of the parent-company and consolidated financial statements
Elected by the Annual General Meeting on January 29, 2016 to audit the financial statements for
the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year, PwC audited the parent-company financial statements for the fiscal
year October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016 prepared by the Executive Board in accordance with
HGB (German GAAP) rules, and the management report on thyssenkrupp AG, which is combined
with the management report on the Group. The auditors issued an unqualified audit opinion. In
accordance with § 315a HGB, the consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG for the
fiscal year from October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016, and the management report on the
Group, which is combined with the management report on the Company, were prepared on the
basis of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as applicable in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements and the combined management report were also given an
unqualified audit opinion by PwC. The auditors also confirmed that the Executive Board has
installed an appropriate reporting and monitoring system which is suitable in its design and
handling to identify at an early stage developments which could place the continued existence of
the Company at risk.
By resolution of the Audit Committee of February 11, 2016, the Supervisory Board tasked the
financial statement auditors for the reporting year with the following focus theme: Analysis of
project management at thyssenkrupp Marine Systems.
The financial-statement documents and audit reports for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year were
discussed in detail in the meetings of the Audit Committee on November 21, 2016 and the
Supervisory Board on November 23, 2016. The auditors reported on the main findings of their
audit. They also outlined their findings on the internal control and risk management systems in
relation to the accounting process and were available to answer questions and provide additional
information. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported in depth at the full Supervisory Board
meeting on the Audit Committee’s examination of the parent-company and consolidated financial
statements. Following examination and discussion of the parent-company financial statements, the
consolidated financial statements, and the combined management report by the Supervisory Board
no objections were raised. In line with the recommendation by the Audit Committee, the
Supervisory Board then approved the result of the audit by the financial statement auditors.
Following completion of our examination we came to the conclusion that no objections were to be
raised and we established the financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG and approved the
consolidated financial statements. Following our own examination and taking the earnings and
financial situation into account, the Supervisory Board concurred with the Executive Board’s
proposal for the appropriation of net income. Together with the Executive Board, we propose to the
Annual General Meeting that a dividend of €0.15 per share be paid for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year.

15

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Report by the Supervisory Board

Personnel changes on the Supervisory Board and Executive Board
There were two changes on the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG, both on the employee
representatives’ side. Firstly Dr. Sabine Maaßen stepped down from the Supervisory Board of
thyssenkrupp AG at March 15, 2016. By court appointment effective March 30, 2016, Tanja
Jacquemin was appointed to the Supervisory Board. After Dr. Sabine Maaßen’s departure, Markus
Grolms was elected as the new Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board as of April 8, 2016. At the
close of May 31, 2016 Martin Dreher also left the Supervisory Board. Effective June 1, 2016 Tekin
Nasikkol became a new member of the Supervisory Board by court appointment. The Supervisory
Board members thanked Dr. Sabine Maaßen and Martin Dreher for their good work over many
years.
In the past fiscal year the Supervisory Board resolved the reappointment of an Executive Board
member for five further years: In the meeting on May 19, 2016 the appointment of Dr. Donatus
Kaufmann as Executive Board member of thyssenkrupp AG was renewed until January 31, 2022.
The Supervisory Board thanks the Executive Board members, all employees of the Group worldwide
and the employee representatives of all Group companies for their efforts and achievements in the
2015 / 2016 fiscal year.
The Supervisory Board

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
Chairman
Essen, November 23, 2016

16

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Corporate governance
In the following section, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board report on corporate
governance at thyssenkrupp in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance
Code. This section also includes the compensation report for the Executive Board.

Corporate governance overview
Further development of corporate governance in the Group
thyssenkrupp is continuing to develop its understanding of good and responsible corporate
governance. Under the project governance@thyssenkrupp the corporate governance structures
throughout the Group are being harmonized and optimized beyond the established understanding
of corporate governance defined in the German Corporate Governance Code. The focus is on
strengthening the transparency and reliability of our binding internal regulations and supporting
managers in the use of internal corporate governance instruments.

Implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code
In the reporting year the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG again dealt
intensively with the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with
§ 161 (1) Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the Executive Board and Supervisory Board issued a joint
declaration of conformity in the reporting year, which was published on October 1, 2016. It is
available on the Company’s website at www.thyssenkrupp.com > Company > Management > Corporate
Governance.
In this reporting year thyssenkrupp AG continues to comply with all recommendations of the
Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code published by the Federal
Ministry of Justice in the official section of the Federal Gazette, and will continue to comply with
these recommendations in the future.
In addition, thyssenkrupp AG complies with all suggestions of the German Corporate Governance
Code. The declarations of conformity issued in the last five years are permanently available on our
website.
Our listed subsidiary Eisen- und Hüttenwerke AG also complies with the Code, taking into account
the particularities of its membership of the Group. Individual deviations are presented and
explained in the company’s declaration of conformity of October 1, 2016.

17

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Management >
Corporate Governance

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Three lines of defense model as framework for Groupwide risk management
An integrated governance, risk management and compliance (GRC) model, embedded in the
Groupwide GRC Policy, provides the basis for professional and efficient management and control in
the Group. As a framework for this internal oversight system, thyssenkrupp uses the internationally
established three lines of defense model adapted to the Group’s specific organizational structure.
The GRC model shows at which level (line) the various responsibilities for risk management lie
within the Group. At the same time it serves to define responsibilities within the GRC model.

THREE LINES OF DEFENSE MODEL
External auditing

Supervisory Board/Audit Committee
Executive Board/Business Area Boards

1st line of defense

2nd line of defense

3rd line of defense

Functions that own
and manage risks

Functions that oversee
and manage risks

Functions that provide
independent assurance

Management controls

Controlling, Accounting
& Risk

Internal controls

Internal Auditing

Compliance
Legal
Other corporate functions

support
review

The first line of defense involves preventing risks where they occur, and where this is not
practicable identifying and reducing them to an appropriate level. In the reporting period we
continued to improve the internal control system in the Group by strengthening systematic risk
management on the first line of defense with automated internal controls in the business processes
wherever possible. As there are cases where this is not fully feasible, further control measures have
to be performed by management to ensure the effectiveness of the control system.
The second line of defense includes functions such as Controlling, Accounting & Risk, Compliance,
and Legal. These provide the framework for the internal control system, the risk management
system, and compliance (for example via policies and other binding internal documents) and
support the first line of defense with implementation. At the same time these functions oversee and
manage the Group’s risk landscape from the viewpoint of the Group as a whole. Close integration
of the internal control system, risk management system and compliance maximizes the efficiency
of risk prevention and management.

18

Risk management in line with
international standards

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

The third line of defense is Corporate Function Internal Auditing, which independently reviews the
appropriateness and efficiency of the risk management processes and systems implemented by
the first two lines of defense. The head of Corporate Internal Auditing reports directly to the CEO
and takes part in meetings of the Supervisory Board and/or Audit Committee. Internal Auditing
itself is subject to an external quality audit every five years; the last audit took place in spring 2015.
The three lines of defense model is subject to external supervision by the financial statement
auditors who take into account the results of the reviews performed by Internal Auditing in their
assessment.

Risk management and internal control system
Corporate governance at thyssenkrupp involves dealing responsibly with risks. The continuous and
systematic management of business opportunities and risks is fundamental to professional
governance. It helps ensure that risks are identified, evaluated and managed at an early stage. The
Executive Board reports regularly to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee about the status
of the main risks in the Group and progress with the widening of the internal control system. The
Audit Committee deals regularly with monitoring the effectiveness of the accounting process and
the internal control, risk management and internal auditing system, as well as monitoring the
independence of the financial statement auditors. thyssenkrupp continuously enhances the
individual systems and adapts them to changing conditions. Key features of our control and risk
management system are described in the opportunity and risk report.

Compliance
Compliance, in the sense of all Groupwide measures to ensure adherence to statutory requirements
and binding internal regulations, is a key management and oversight duty at thyssenkrupp.
For thyssenkrupp compliance is a must. That is what it says in our mission statement, and
something we take seriously according to our maxim “Compliance is a question of mindset”.
The Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG has unequivocally expressed its rejection of antitrust
violations and corruption in the thyssenkrupp Compliance Commitment. thyssenkrupp has made a
clear commitment to compliance with laws and binding internal regulations: Any violations, in
particular antitrust or corruption violations, will be met with zero tolerance.
The importance attached to compliance at thyssenkrupp is underlined by the fact that an Executive
Board member was appointed especially for the corporate functions Legal & Compliance. In this
capacity he reports regularly to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee. The Chief Compliance
Officer is responsible for the management of the compliance program and reports directly to the
Executive Board member for Legal & Compliance. The heads of the compliance departments of
Corporate and the business areas report directly to the Chief Compliance Officer.
More information on compliance at thyssenkrupp can be found in the “Compliance” section of the
combined management report.

19

Compliance is a question of mindset.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Supervisory Board targets for its own composition
Under the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board must be composed in such
a way that its members have the knowledge, skills and professional experience needed to perform
their tasks properly. The Supervisory Board sets targets for its own composition. The election
recommendations made to the Annual General Meeting must take these targets into account in the
same way as the requirements of the law, the Articles of Association, and the German Corporate
Governance Code. As this was the case in the election of the shareholder representatives at the
Annual General Meeting on January 30, 2015, the current composition of the Supervisory Board
meets these targets. Only the proportion of women on the Supervisory Board remains slightly short
of target at currently 25%.
In their meetings on September 7, 2016, the Executive Committee and Supervisory Board resolved
that the targets for the composition of the Supervisory Board, last updated in September 2015,
should be amended in line with new statutory requirements concerning specialist knowledge on the
Supervisory Board. The following concrete targets were adopted:
■ Supervisory Board to have sufficient members with international experience, in particular in the

■

■
■

■

■
■

expansion markets. Supervisory Board members as a whole to be familiar with the sectors in
which thyssenkrupp operates
Consideration of special knowledge and experience in the application of accounting principles
and internal control processes, expertise in the areas of accounting and auditing, also
consideration of technical expertise, and knowledge of financing strategies and financial
instruments
Experience in corporate management and the development and formulation of corporate
strategies
Avoidance of significant and non-temporary conflicts of interest (existing conflicts of interest or
conflicts of interest to be expected in the future) and appropriate handling of other conflicts of
interest
Supervisory Board members to serve no more than a maximum three periods of office, and an
age limit of 75 (i.e. Supervisory Board members to stand down from the Supervisory Board at
the end of the Annual General Meeting after they reach 75)
Increase in the proportion of women to at least 30%
At least fifteen independent Supervisory Board members

Avoiding conflicts of interest
In the reporting year there were no consulting or other service agreements between Supervisory
Board members and the Company. Conflicts of interest of Executive Board or Supervisory Board
members, which must be disclosed immediately to the Supervisory Board, did not occur.
Details of the other directorships held by Executive Board and Supervisory Board members on
statutory supervisory boards or comparable German and non-German control bodies of business
enterprises are provided in the sections of the same name under “Additional information”. Details
of related party transactions are given in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

20

The Supervisory Board’s knowledge of
sectors was adopted as a further
explicit target.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Directors’ dealings
Members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and persons close to them are required to
disclose the purchase and sale of thyssenkrupp AG shares and debt certificates or related financial
instruments whenever the value of the transactions amounts to €5,000 or more within a calendar
year. No transactions were reported to us in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year.
At September 30, 2016 the total volume of thyssenkrupp AG shares held by all Executive Board
and Supervisory Board members amounted to less than 1% of the shares issued by the Company.

Shareholders and Annual General Meeting
The shareholders of thyssenkrupp AG exercise their rights at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting, which is chaired by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the Articles
of Association. The Annual General Meeting takes place once a year. Each share confers one vote
and has an accounting par value of €2.56.
Shareholders can exercise their voting rights at the Annual General Meeting in person or by proxy,
for which they can authorize a person of their choice or a Company-nominated proxy acting on their
instructions. Proxy voting instructions to Company-nominated proxies can be issued via the internet
before and during the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders can also cast their votes in writing by
postal vote – without authorizing a proxy. The Annual General Meeting can be viewed live and in full
on the Company’s website. Also on our website we make all documents and information on the
Annual General Meeting available to shareholders in good time. In addition, questions can be
addressed to members of our Investor Relations department via an infoline or e-mail.

Transparency through high-quality information
Our dialogue with the capital market is aimed at presenting key performance indicators and further
valuation-relevant facts in the highest quality to all target groups fully, equally and quickly. To this
end Investor Relations is directly established under the CFO. Together with the CFO, the CEO and
the business area management teams, Investor Relations conducts a regular and intensive
dialogue with capital market participants on roadshows, at investors’ conferences, at the Capital
Market Day, in conference calls held on publication of the interim reports and Annual Report, and to
report on current developments. All dates and venues, presentations, audio and video recordings
of conference calls and events together with a wide range of further in-depth information can be
found on the Investor Relations section of our website.

21

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Also on our website we report on the latest developments in the Group. Visitors to our website will
find for example press releases and stock exchange (ad hoc) announcements, a live stream of our
annual press conference, the Company’s Articles of Association, annual reports and interim reports.
Anyone interested can subscribe to an electronic newsletter which reports news from the Group.

Deductible in D&O insurance
The Company has taken out directors and officers (D&O) liability insurance for the members of the
Executive Board and Supervisory Board with an appropriate deductible pursuant to § 93 (2)
sentence 3 Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (Executive Board members) and the German Corporate
Governance Code (Supervisory Board members).

Accounting and financial statement auditing
In line with European Union requirements, thyssenkrupp prepares the consolidated financial
statements and interim reports in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). However, the parent-company financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG, on which the
dividend payment is based, are drawn up in accordance with German GAAP (HGB).
For the reporting period we once again agreed with the financial statement auditors that the Chairman of
the Audit Committee would be informed immediately of any possible grounds for exclusion or bias
arising during the audit insofar as they are not immediately eliminated, and that the auditors would
report immediately on any findings or occurrences during the audit which have a significant
bearing on the duties of the Supervisory Board. It was also agreed that the auditors would inform
the Supervisory Board or make a note in the audit report of any facts ascertained during their
examination that conflict with the declaration of conformity issued.
In accordance with the statutory provisions the auditor is elected each year by the Annual General
Meeting for a period of one year. At the proposal of the Supervisory Board, the Annual General
Meeting on January 29, 2016 elected PwC to audit the annual financial statements and review the
interim financial reports for fiscal year 2015 / 2016. PwC has been auditing the parent-company
financial statements and consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG since fiscal
2012 / 2013. PwC was engaged in 2012 following an external bidding process. The signatory
auditors for the parent-company and consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG are
Prof. Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann (since fiscal year 2012 / 2013) and Michael Preiß (since the
reporting year). The statutory provisions and rotation requirements under §§ 319 and 319a HGB
are fulfilled.

22

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Compensation report
The following compensation report is part of the combined management report.

Performance-based compensation system for the Executive Board
The current compensation system for the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG has been
in place since fiscal year 2014 / 2015. It was approved by the Annual General Meeting on January
30, 2015 with a majority of 98.79% of the capital represented.
Based on this, compensation for the Executive Board members comprises fixed and variable
components. The former are the fixed compensation, fringe benefits and pension plans, while the
latter are the performance bonus (Short Term Incentive Plan – STI) and the Long Term Incentive
Plan (LTI). These components are described in more detail in the following passages.
The Supervisory Board – based on preparation by the Personnel Committee – is responsible for
determining individual Executive Board member compensation. Criteria for the appropriateness of
the compensation include the duties of the individual Executive Board members, their personal
performance, the business situation, the success and prospects of the Company and also the
prevailing level of compensation at peer companies and the compensation structure applying in the
Company. The variable components are mainly based on performance over several years. They
therefore set long-term incentives and focus the compensation structure on the sustainable
development of the Company. In the case of exceptional performance or achievements, the
Supervisory Board can award an additional discretionary bonus.
All Executive Board member contracts provide for a severance payment in the event of early
termination without cause. The severance payment is limited to a maximum of two years’
compensation including fringe benefits (severance payment cap) and compensates no more than
the remaining term of the employment agreement. Promises of payments in the event of early
termination due to a change of control were agreed with Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, Guido Kerkhoff and
Oliver Burkhard in their contracts for their second term of office (from fiscal year 2015 / 2016). A
corresponding clause was also agreed with Dr. Donatus Kaufmann in connection with the renewal
of his contract from fiscal year 2016 / 2017 resolved in this fiscal year. The same benefits are
granted as in the event of early termination without cause.

Fixed compensation and fringe benefits
Fixed compensation is paid in monthly installments as a salary. Since the last review at October 1,
2014 it has been €700,000 per year for an ordinary Executive Board member, and €1,340,000 per
year for the Executive Board chairman. The Executive Board members also receive fringe benefits,
mainly comprising a company car, security services, and insurance premiums. The benefits apply
in principle to all Executive Board members; the amount varies according to personal situation.

23

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Performance bonus
The first component of variable compensation is the performance bonus. The amount of the
performance bonus is dependent on three of the Group’s key performance indicators: Earnings
before interest and taxes (EBIT) and free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A) each have a
weighting of 40%, ROCE (return on capital employed) accounts for the remaining 20%.
The target figures for these indicators are taken from the corporate planning (budget); in addition
threshold values are defined for each indicator, above or below which a further improvement or
deterioration of the result has no effect on the level of target achievement. The Supervisory Board
reviews and if necessary adjusts the target and threshold amounts annually in order to maintain
challenging targets. In addition to the three weighted performance indicators, a multiplicative
correction factor is used in the calculation. This permits the Supervisory Board to adapt and
individually differentiate the overall target achievement level within a +/−20% range. The correction
factor is made up equally of a sustainability multiplier and a discretionary factor. The sustainability
multiplier is based on indirect financial targets from the areas employees, innovations, environment,
and suppliers. The discretionary factor is set by the Supervisory Board to evaluate overall
performance. The payout amount is limited to a maximum of 200% of the target level; there is no
minimum bonus.

Long Term Incentive Plan (LTI)
The second component of variable compensation is the LTI, which has a long-term incentive effect.
Decisive factors here are value generation, measured on the basis of thyssenkrupp Value Added
(tkVA), and the performance of the Company’s stock.
For an initial value (in euros) specified in the individual awards, the Executive Board members are
granted so-called stock rights (virtual shares). The number of stock rights issued is calculated from
the specified initial value divided by the average stock price in the 1st quarter of the three-year
tkVA performance period, beginning on October 1 of the fiscal year in which the stock rights were
granted. The number of stock rights issued is adjusted at the end of the tkVA performance period –
depending on the performance of average tkVA in these three years compared with a target set by
the Supervisory Board: The number of stock rights increases by 1% for every €20 million of
average tkVA above the target value and decreases by 1% for every €10 million below the target.
The payout amount is then based on this adjusted number and the average thyssenkrupp share
price in the 1st quarter of the fiscal year immediately after the tkVA performance period. If tkVA and
the share price perform positively, the maximum payout amount is 250% of the initial value; in the
event of a very negative performance, the number of stock rights can decrease to zero, in which
case no payout is made.
For the LTI installment granted to the Executive Board members in January 2016, the Supervisory
Board set the target average tkVA at zero. This relates to the tkVA performance period 2015 / 2016
up to and including 2017 / 2018. In the case of the LTI, too, the Supervisory Board reviews and if
necessary adjusts the target and threshold values for each new annual installment in order to
maintain challenging targets.

24

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Compensation caps
Under the recommendation of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 4.2.3 (2), sentence 6),
the compensation of Executive Board members must be capped both in total and with regard to its
variable components. In addition to the maximum thresholds applying for variable compensation
components, thyssenkrupp has therefore also established caps for overall compensation. These
were increased to €4.5 million per fiscal year for Guido Kerkhoff and Oliver Burkhard, and
€9 million per fiscal year for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger for their second term of office starting in fiscal
year 2015 / 2016; for Dr. Donatus Kaufmann the cap will be increased from currently €4 million to
€4.5 million from the start of his second term of office in fiscal year 2016 / 2017.

Pensions
Pensions are paid to former Executive Board members who have either reached pension age or
become permanently incapacitated for work. thyssenkrupp does not pay transitional allowances
upon premature termination or non-renewal of service contracts.
The pension of Executive Board members appointed before September 30, 2012 (Dr. Heinrich
Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff) was originally a percentage of the final fixed salary they received
before their employment contract ended. This percentage increased with the duration of the
Executive Board member’s appointment and was generally 30% at the start of the first five-year
period of appointment, 50% at the start of the second and 60% at the start of the third; in the case
of Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, a pension entitlement of 50% of his final fixed salary before his
employment contract ended was agreed right at the start of his first appointment period. When the
Supervisory Board resolved to reappoint the two in fiscal year 2014 / 2015, it was agreed with them
that from the start of the new period of appointment their pension entitlement would be fixed at 50%
of their 2014 / 2015 fixed salary – as a result their pension is no longer pegged to the term of their
appointment and progression of their fixed salary.
For Executive Board members appointed after September 30, 2012 (Oliver Burkhard and Dr.
Donatus Kaufmann) the final-salary pension plan was switched to a defined-contribution pension
plan, with the annual pension contribution (“module”) currently amounting to 40% of the annual
fixed salary. In connection with the resolution on the reappointment of Oliver Burkhard in fiscal
2014 / 2015, with effect from the start of his new appointment period it was additionally agreed
with him to cap his pension entitlement at 50% and the defined contribution at 40% of his fixed
salary in 2014 / 2015.
The pension normally becomes payable on expiry of the Executive Board contract on or after the
member’s 60th birthday. Current pensions are adjusted annually in line with the consumer price
index in the case of Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff, and at a rate of 1% per year in the
case of Oliver Burkhard. Dr. Donatus Kaufmann’s pension will be paid in principle as a lump sum.
Under the surviving dependants’ benefits plan, a surviving partner receives 60% of the pension
and each dependent child 20%, up to a maximum of 100% of the pension amount. In the case of
Dr. Donatus Kaufmann, surviving dependants will receive the amount of the pension contributions
plus interest at the time the pension becomes payable.

25

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

Total Executive Board compensation 2015 / 2016
Since fiscal year 2013 / 2014 we have disclosed compensation for individual Executive Board
members on the basis of the standardized model tables recommended in the German Corporate
Governance Code (as amended). A key feature of these model tables is the separate statement of
the benefits granted (Table 1) and the actual allocations (Table 2). For the benefits granted, the
target values (payable on 100% target achievement) and the minimum and maximum values that
can be achieved are also stated. In addition, stock-based compensation is stated separately (Table 3).

TA B L E 1 : E X E C U T I V E B OAR D CO M P E N SAT I O N 2 0 1 5 / 2 0 1 6 ( B E N E FI T S G R AN T E D )
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

Guido Kerkhoff

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Chairman of the Executive Board
since January 21, 2011

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since April 01, 2011

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since February 01, 2013

Ordinary member of the Executive
Board since February 01, 2014

all figures in €000s

2014 /
2015
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Minimum

2015 /
2016
Maximum 1)

2014 /
2015
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Minimum

2015 /
2016
Maximum 1)

Fixed compensation

1,340 1,340 1,340

Fringe benefits

Performance
bonus (cash)
One-year variable
compensation

6th installment LTI
2015 / 2016 –
2018 / 2019
5th installment LTI
2014 / 2015 –
2017 / 2018

2014 /
2015
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Minimum

2015 /
2016
Maximum 1)

2014 /
2015
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Initial
value

2015 /
2016
Minimum

2015 /
2016
Maximum 1)

700

1,340

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

700

304

304

27

71

71

71

112

149

149

149

78

80

80

80

1,560 1,644 1,644

1,644

727

771

771

771

812

849

849

849

778

780

780

780

1,200 1,250

–

2,500

630

655

– 1,310

630

630

– 1,260

630

630

– 1,260

– 1,656

–

5,000

–

828

– 2,500

–

786

– 2,375

–

786

– 2,375

– 1,124

–

– 1,124

–

– 1,124

–

220

Total

2015 /
2016
Initial
value

2,129

304

–

–

–

–

–

–

Total

4,889 4,550 1,644

9,144 2,481 2,254

771 4,581 2,566 2,265

849 4,484 2,532 2,196

780 4,415

Service cost 2)3)

1,699 1,768 1,768

1,768

513

827

315

Total

6,588 6,318 3,412 10,912 2,101 2,767 1,284 5,094 3,378 3,092 1,676 5,311 2,798 2,511 1,095 4,730

HGB total 4)

4,788 4,280

–

(380)

513

– 2,428 2,113

–

513

812

827

– 2,513 2,129

–

827

266

315

– 2,479 2,060

315

–

In addition to the individual caps stated in the “Maximum” column, total annual compensation is limited to €9.0 million (Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger) and €4.5 million (Guido Kerkhoff and
Oliver Burkhard). For Dr. Donatus Kaufmann the cap will be adjusted from currently €4 million to €4.5 million on commencement of his second term of office in fiscal year 2016 / 2017.
Prorated limits apply for appointments/departures during the year.
2)
All figures in accordance with IFRS. Service costs in accordance with HGB are €1,321K for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €1,333K), €343K for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €(152)K),
€522K for Oliver Burkhard (prior year: €405K), and €296K for Dr. Donatus Kaufmann (prior year: €195K). The present values of the obligations amount to €13,742K (IFRS)/€8,015K
(HGB) for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €8,893K (IFRS)/€6,557K (HGB)), €3,966K (IFRS)/€1,885K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €2,308K (IFRS)/€1,520K (HGB)), €5,467K
(IFRS)/€2,398K (HGB) for Oliver Burkhard (prior year: €2,733K (IFRS)/€1,723K (HGB)), and €818K (IFRS)/€701K (HGB) for Dr. Donatus Kaufmann (prior year: €439K (IFRS)/€398K (HGB)).
Cf. footnote 3 for calculation method.
3)
To improve the comparability of the final salary-based and defined-contribution pension plans as well as comparability with the prior-year figures, service cost and present value are prorated
in line with Executive Board membership in the fiscal year. To take account of the vesting of contractual pension rights of Executive Board members, further provisions were recognized for
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and Guido Kerkhoff in the past. Taking these provisions into account and without proration, the service costs are €7K (IFRS)/€5K (HGB) for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
(prior year: €(355)K (IFRS)/€199K (HGB)), and €3,699K (IFRS)/€2,272K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €(377)K (IFRS)/€37K (HGB)). The present values of the obligations are then
€21,548K (IFRS)/€12,555K (HGB) for Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger (prior year: €16,474K (IFRS)/€12,132K (HGB)) and €11,028K (IFRS)/€5,216K (HGB) for Guido Kerkhoff (prior year: €4,597K
(IFRS)/€3,010K (HGB)).
4)
Total compensation in accordance with HGB. In deviation from the amounts shown above for the performance bonuses, this includes the amounts paid out in accordance with Table 2.
In accordance with HGB, service cost is not included.
1)

26

–

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

TA B L E 2 : E X E C U T I V E B OAR D CO M P E N SAT I O N 2 0 1 5 / 2 0 1 6 ( A L L O C AT I O N S )
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

Guido Kerkhoff

Ordinary member of the
Chairman of the Executive Board Executive Board
since January 21, 2011
since April 01, 2011
all figures in €000s

Fixed compensation
Fringe benefits
Total
One-year variable
compensation

Multi-year
variable
compensation

Performance bonus (cash)

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board
since February 01, 2013

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board
since February 01, 2014

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

1,340

1,340

700

700

700

700

700

700

220

304

27

71

112

149

78

80

1,560

1,644

727

771

812

849

778

780

1,099

980

577

514

577

494

577

494

Performance bonus in stock
rights 2012 / 2013 – 2015 / 2016

–

481

–

240

–

160

–

–

Performance bonus in stock
rights 2011 / 2012 – 2014 / 2015

275

–

137

–

–

–

–

–

Additional bonus in stock rights
2012 / 2013 – 2015 / 2016

–

674

–

337

–

225

–

–

Additional bonus in stock rights
2011 / 2012 – 2014 / 2015

403

–

201

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,662

–

831

–

554

–

–

3rd installment LTI
2012 / 2013 – 2015 / 2016
2nd installment LTI
2011 / 2012 – 2014 / 2015
Total

750

–

375

–

–

–

–

–

4,087

5,441

2,017

2,693

1,389

2,282

1,355

1,274

Service cost 1)

1,699

1,768

(380)

513

812

827

266

315

Total

5,786

7,209

1,637

3,206

2,201

3,109

1,621

1,589

1)

For calculation of service cost, see footnotes 2 and 3 to Table 1.

TA B L E 3 : S TO C K - B A S E D E X E C U T I V E B OA R D COM P E N SAT I O N
(number of stock rights granted and cost of stock-based compensation in fiscal year)
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger

Guido Kerkhoff

Ordinary member of the
Chairman of the Executive Board Executive Board
since January 21, 2011
since April 01, 2011

Number of stock rights
granted
Cost of stock-based
compensation in fiscal
year in €000s

Oliver Burkhard

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board
since February 01, 2013

Ordinary member of the
Executive Board
since February 01, 2014

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

LTI 2015 / 2016 –
2018 / 2019

–

109,709

–

54,855

–

52,112

–

52,112

LTI 2014 / 2015 –
2017 / 2018

90,634

–

47,835

–

47,835

–

47,835

–

442

5,479

237

2,771

273

2,623

301

2,237

Total compensation for Executive Board members active in the respective fiscal year calculated in
accordance with German GAAP (HGB) for work in the reporting year amounted to €10.6 million.
The corresponding prior-year value was €12.2 million. The requirement for appropriateness was
also taken into account when determining the individual variable compensation. No further benefits
have been promised to any Executive Board members in the event that they leave their post.
thyssenkrupp has no knowledge of benefits or corresponding promises given to members of the
Executive Board by third parties in connection with their Executive Board positions. As in previous
years, no loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Executive Board, nor were
any guarantees or other commitments entered into in their favor.

27

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

The 3rd installment of the LTI fell due in the reporting year. On account of the performance of tkVA
and the share price over the applicable performance period 2012 / 2013 to 2015 / 2016, this led to
a payout amounting to over 166% of the initial value for each beneficiary. As a result an amount of
€1,662,394 was paid to Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger and €831,197 to Guido Kerkhoff. Oliver Burkhard
received a prorated payment of €554,137 based on his contract start date February 1, 2013.
Dr. Donatus Kaufmann did not receive any payment from this installment because he was not yet a
member of the Executive Board in fiscal year 2012 / 2013. In January 2016 the Executive Board
members were granted new stock rights under the 6th installment of the LTI. Under the 4th to 6th
installments of the LTI, the Executive Board members now have a total of 629,874 stock rights
which have been awarded but are not yet payable.
Total compensation paid to former members of the Executive Board and their surviving dependants
amounted to €17.4 million (prior year: €17.4 million). For pension obligations benefiting former
Executive Board members and their surviving dependants, €304.1 million (prior year:
€261.6 million) was accrued in the financial statements under IFRS and €207.3 million (prior year:
€205.2 million) in the financial statements under German GAAP (HGB).

Stock-based compensation for further executives
Alongside the Executive Board, further selected executives of the Group worldwide receive part of
their remuneration in the form of stock-based compensation (LTI). Since fiscal year 2014 / 2015
this is comparable with the LTI described above for the Executive Board, with the initial values
adjusted accordingly.
thyssenkrupp uses this long-term compensation instrument to strengthen executives’ identification
with thyssenkrupp and loyalty to the Company. As the LTI amount is linked to both the share price
and tkVA, it promotes value-based management geared to achieving the corporate goals.
In the reporting year, the LTI program for further executives resulted in expense of altogether
€76.2 million (prior year: €29.5 million).

Supervisory Board compensation
The compensation of the Supervisory Board is subject to § 14 of the Articles of Association. In
addition to reimbursement of their expenses and a meeting attendance fee of €500, Supervisory
Board members receive annual base compensation of €50,000.
The annual compensation for the Supervisory Board Chairman is €200,000 and for the Vice
Chairman/Chairwoman €150,000. This also covers membership and chairs of committees. The
other Supervisory Board members receive premiums for the chairs/membership of specified
committees which are also defined in § 14 of the Articles of Association. Supervisory Board
members who serve on the Supervisory Board or a committee for only part of the fiscal year
receive prorated compensation.
The members of the Supervisory Board will receive total compensation, including meeting
attendance fees, for the reporting year of €1.69 million (prior year: €1.74 million). This includes
compensation paid to Supervisory Board members for directorships at Group companies in the
amount of €69,302 (prior year: €77,202).
The individual members will receive the amounts listed in the following table:

28

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | Corporate governance

S U P E R V I S O R Y B OAR D COM P E N S AT I O N 2 0 1 5 / 2 0 1 6
in €1)

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner
Dr. Sabine Maaßen
(Vice Chairwoman until March 15, 2016)
Markus Grolms
(Vice Chairman since April 08, 2016)
Martin Dreher
(until May 31, 2016)
Ingrid Hengster
Susanne Herberger
Tanja Jacquemin
(since March 30, 2016)
Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel
Ernst-August Kiel
Dr. Norbert Kluge
Tekin Nasikkol
(since June 01, 2016)
Dr. Ralf Nentwig
René Obermann
Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens
Klaus Preußler
(until January 31, 2015)
Peter Remmler
Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow
Wilhelm Segerath
Carsten Spohr
Dr. Lothar Steinebach
Christian Streiff
(until January 30, 2015)
Jürgen R. Thumann
(until January 30, 2015)
Jens Tischendorf
Fritz Weber
Isolde Würz
Total

Fixed compensation

Compensation for
committee work

Meeting attendance fees

from directorships within
the Group

Total compensation

200,000
(200,000)
75,000
(150,000)
100,000
(50,000)
33,333
(50,000)
50,000
(37,500)
50,000
(50,000)
29,167
(–)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
16,667
(–)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
–
(16,667)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(50,000)
–
(16,667)
–
(16,667)
50,000
(37,500)
50,000
(50,000)
50,000
(33,333)
1,254,167
(1,258,333)

–
(–) 2)
– 2)
(–) 2)
16,250 2) 3)
(32,500)
–
(–)
–
(–)
25,833
(32,500)
6,667
(–)
50,000
(43,750)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
32,500
(29,375)
–
(–)
52,500
(52,500)
–
(–)
12,500
(12,500)
–
(–)
50,208
(45,000)
–
(4,167)
25,000
(25,000)
–
(–)
–
(12,500)
12,500
(8,333)
–
(–)
–
(–)
283,958
(298,125)

10,000
(12,500)
3,500
(7,500)
8,000
(7,000)
1,500
(2,500)
2,000
(1,500)
5,500
(7,000)
2,000
(–)
6,500
(8,500)
2,000
(2,500)
2,000
(2,500)
500
(–)
5,000
(6,500)
2,000
(2,500)
5,000
(7,500)
–
(1,500)
3,500
(5,000)
2,000
(2,500)
8,000
(7,500)
1,500
(2,500)
4,500
(5,000)
–
(1,000)
–
(3,000)
4,500
(3,000)
2,000
(2,500)
2,000
(1,000)
83,500
(102,500)

–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
15,202
(23,502)
–
(–)
16,000
(16,000)
–
(–)
–
(–)
16,000
(15,750)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
16,500
(16,500)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
–
(–)
5,300
(5,450)
–
(–)
69,302
(77,202)

210,000
(212,500)
78,500
(157,500)
124,250
(89,500)
50,035
(76,002)
52,000
(39,000)
97,333
(105,500)
37,834
(–)
106,500
(102,250)
68,000
(68,250)
52,000
(52,500)
17,167
(–)
87,500
(85,875)
52,000
(52,500)
107,500
(110,000)
–
(18,167)
82,500
(84,000)
52,000
(52,500)
108,208
(102,500)
51,500
(56,667)
79,500
(80,000)
–
(17,667)
–
(32,167)
67,000
(48,833)
57,300
(57,950)
52,000
(34,333)
1,690,927
(1,736,160)

2)

Prior-year figures in brackets
Covered by fixed compensation in accordance with § 14 (3) of the Articles of Association
Committee compensation paid on a prorated basis.
The employee representatives who belong to trade unions have stated that they will transfer their compensation to the Hans Böckler Foundation in accordance with the policies of the
German Federation of Trade Unions.
1)
2)
3)

In the reporting year Supervisory Board members received no further compensation or benefits for
personal services rendered, in particular advisory and agency services. As in previous years, no
loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Supervisory Board, nor were any
guarantees or other commitments entered into in their favor.

29

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | thyssenkrupp stock

thyssenkrupp stock
K E Y DATA O F T H YS S E N K R UP P S TO C K

Capital stock
Number of shares (total)
Market capitalization end September

thyssenkrupp stock
master data

2011 / 2012

2012 / 2013

2013 / 2014

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

million €

1,317

1,317

1,449

1,449

1,449

ISIN 2)

million shares

514.5

514.5

565.9

565.9

565.9

Shares

DE 000 750 0001

million €

8,510

9,096

11,754

8,873

12,008

ADRs 1)

US88629Q2075

Closing price end September

€

16.54

17.68

20.78

15.68

21.22

Symbols

High

€

22.86

19.05

22.72

26.30

22.27

TKA

Frankfurt, Düsseldorf

Low

€

11.58

13.16

16.60

15.25

12.84

TKAMY

ADRs (over-the-counter trading)

Dividend per share

€

–

–

0.11

0.15

0.151)

Dividend yield

%

–

–

0.5

1.0

0.71)

million €

–

–

62

85

851)

1)

Dividend payout

Basic earnings per share

€

(8.24)

(2.79)

0.38

0.55

0.52

Number of shares (outstanding 2))

million shares

514.5

514.5

557.1

565.9

565.9

Trading volume (daily average)

million shares

4.1

3.7

2.4

2.6

2.7

1)
2)

2)

International Stock Identification Number
American Depositary Receipt

Proposal to the Annual General Meeting
Weighted average

In the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year thyssenkrupp’s stock significantly outperformed the comparative
indexes DAX and STOXX. At the start of the fiscal year in a difficult economic environment the stock
was carried by visible progress on the company’s Strategic Way Forward. Towards the end of the
1st quarter and the start of the 2nd quarter, concerns surrounding high import and price pressure
in the materials markets took the upper hand. Moreover, uncertainties about the economic situation
in China particularly impacted the performance of stocks regarded as early cyclicals, such as
thyssenkrupp. In early February the stock stood at a fiscal year low of €12.84.
In the subsequent period stocks from the materials sector benefited from recovering raw material
and steel prices. Boosted in part by the expectation of potential consolidation steps in the
European steel industry, from early March to the end of April thyssenkrupp’s stock decoupled itself
clearly from the general market performance. Towards the end of the fiscal year thyssenkrupp’s
stock reached a fiscal year high of €22.27. On September 30, 2016 the stock stood at €21.22, up
35.3% from the prior year, while the DAX and STOXX indexes only improved by 8.8% and 1.5%
respectively in the fiscal year.

30

35.3%
thyssenkrupp’s stock improved by
35.3% compared with the prior year.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
01 To our shareholders | thyssenkrupp stock

PERFORMANCE OF THYSSENKRUPP STOCK RELATIVE TO DAX AND DJ STOXX
indexed, fiscal year 2015 / 2016
140

120

100

80
10
2015

11

12

01
2016

02

03

04

05

06

07

08

thyssenkrupp

09
Dax

DJ Stoxx

Shareholder structure
The biggest shareholder in thyssenkrupp AG is the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach
Foundation (AKBH Foundation), Essen, with a holding of 23.03% of the capital stock. Cevian
Capital, Stockholm and Zurich, holds 15.08% and private investors around 10% of the capital stock.
The remaining shares are widely held internationally, with a focus on North America and the United
Kingdom. The share held by the Krupp Foundation is not included in free float. thyssenkrupp AG
currently holds no treasury shares. The free float generally taken into account in the weighting of
thyssenkrupp’s stock in stock indexes accounts for 76.97% of the capital stock.

Shareholder structure
in %
4
1

2
3

Buy and hold recommendations predominate
26 financial analysts from international banks regularly cover the strategic and operating
performance of thyssenkrupp. The analysts’ recommendations and stock price targets reflect not
least the upside potential of thyssenkrupp’s stock from the Strategic Way Forward. At September
30, 2016 over 90% of the analysts recommended holding or buying the stock.

1 AKBH Foundation 1)

23.03

2 Cevian Capital 2)

15.08

3 International institutional investors

51.89

4 Private investors

10.00

1) Voluntary

Dividend proposal of €0.15 per share

disclosure at September 30, 2016
under WpHG of January 27, 2014

2) Disclosure

The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting on January
27, 2017 that a dividend of €0.15 per share be paid for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. In the reporting
year we reduced our risk portfolio in particular through the acquisition of all shares in CSA and
receipt of the operating license from the Brazilian authorities, and further improved the Group’s
efficiency, cash flow and value added. In an exceptionally weak materials environment in Europe,
especially in the 1st fiscal half, we generated net income on a par with the prior year and higher
positive cash flow than a year earlier. We improved quarter by quarter over the course of the fiscal
year, and in the final quarter achieved higher results year-on-year. Although we are still some way
from achieving our minimum requirements and our medium- and long-term goals, we again
reached some important milestones in the reporting year and expect to make further progress with
the implementation of our Strategic Way Forward in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year now under way. We
therefore consider it appropriate and financially justifiable to pay a dividend in the proposed
amount. The proposal takes into account the exceptionally weak materials environment in the 1st
half, our significant performance increase in the 2nd half, the prospect of a significant earnings
improvement in the year now under way, and our balance sheet needs.

31

Investor Relations
Telephone: +49 201 844-536367
E-mail: ir@thyssenkrupp.com
www.thyssenkrupp.com > Investors

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Combined management report

Combined management report

33

Preliminary remarks

33

Fundamental information about
the Group
Profile and organizational structure
Strategy
Management of the Group
Targets

33
35
37
39
41
41
46
49
51
57
68
79

Report on the economic position
Macro and sector environment
Summarized assessment by
the Executive Board
Forecast-actual comparison
Group review
Business area review
Results of operations and
financial position
Annual financial statements of
thyssenkrupp AG

83
87
88
90
94
97

Technology and innovations
Environment, climate and energy
Purchasing
Employees
Compliance
Subsequent events

98 Forecast, opportunity and risk report
98 2016 / 2017 forecast
101 Opportunity and risk report
123 Legal information

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Preliminary remarks

Preliminary remarks
Combined management report
This management report combines the management report on the Group and the management
report on thyssenkrupp AG. In it we report on the course of business including business
performance as well as the position and the expected development of the Group and of
thyssenkrupp AG. The information on thyssenkrupp AG is presented in a separate section of the
report on the economic position with disclosures in accordance with HGB. The German Accounting
Standard 20 (GAS 20) “Group Management Report” was applied.

Fundamental information
about the Group
Profile and organizational structure
We work with passion and expertise to develop high-quality products and intelligent industrial processes
and services that promote efficient use of resources and help create sustainable infrastructures. Our
technologies and innovations are key to meeting the wide-ranging needs of our customers and
markets around the world, achieving growth on the markets of the future, and generating strong and
stable earnings, cash flows and value added. Engineering expertise, group synergies, diversity and
global reach define thyssenkrupp. We engage as entrepreneurs with a passion to perform.
The high standards we set ourselves and our shared values are documented in our mission
statement, which can be found on our website under Company > Corporate culture.

Capability profile
By combining our engineering expertise with our traditionally strong materials capabilities, we
create value for our customers around the world and can utilize the wide-ranging opportunities in
the markets of the future. Together with our customers we develop competitive solutions to the
challenges of the future in their individual sectors. In our capital goods businesses we develop and
manufacture high-quality components for the automotive, machinery, and energy sectors. We also
produce innovative technological goods and service solutions for our customers such as modern
elevator systems and electric power assisted steering systems. Our plant engineering portfolio
extends from the engineering and construction of complete industrial facilities and maintenance
through our global service network to advanced naval technology. Our materials businesses offer
custom material solutions, efficient materials manufacturing and processing, and materials services.

33

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Corporate culture

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

Organizational and management structure
Our business operations are organized in six business areas: Components Technology, Elevator
Technology, Industrial Solutions, Materials Services, Steel Europe and Steel Americas. The business
areas are divided into business units and operating units. In 78 countries, 471 companies and 25
investments accounted for by the equity method are included in the consolidated financial statements.

78
Companies in 78 countries are
included in the consolidated financial
statements.

T H YS S E N K R U P P G R O U P

Corporate headquarters

thyssenkrupp AG
Business areas

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

Steel
Europe

Steel
Americas

The Group is led strategically by thyssenkrupp AG. Founded in 1999 as a stock corporation under
German law, the company has dual domiciles in Essen and Duisburg. Our corporate headquarters
is in Essen. The Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG sets the strategy for the Group’s development
and steers the business areas, the corporate functions, the regions and the service units. We take
an integrated approach to address the markets in our strategic growth regions in North and South
America, India, Asia/Pacific, Greater China, the Middle East and Africa. To this end we established
a regional headquarters in Istanbul in the reporting year to add to the existing regional
headquarters in Chicago, Sao Paulo, Mumbai, Beijing und Singapore. The regions of West Europe,
Central and East Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States, and the German-speaking
region are managed via the various corporate functions.
The Group’s Strategic Way Forward is focused on concrete individual goals for the business areas
and global connectedness and cooperation – we therefore operate in a multidimensional
management structure (matrix structure) made up of operating businesses, corporate functions,
regions, and service units. Within this structure clear roles and responsibilities, rules and standards
for cooperation, and processes and reporting lines have been defined. The “Global Shared
Services” unit combines key local functions in Groupwide service centers and ensures that they are
competitive in terms of efficiency and performance. These are generally site-independent tasks
such as certain accounting, IT, real estate service and human resources sub-processes. Alongside
the central service center in Essen, we currently operate regional centers in Bochum (Germany),
Gdansk (Poland), Porto Alegre (Brazil) and Thane (India). We plan to establish a further center in
China in 2017.
The Group’s structure is routinely reviewed as part of the annual strategy process and adapted if
required. This ensures that we remain competitive in line with current market conditions.

34

Multidimensional management structure with network
character

Business
areas

Corporate
functions

Regions

Service
units

Business areas
Global corporate responsibility for
businesses
Active support of cross-business measures
Corporate functions
Strategic development of the Group
Governance framework
Coordination and support
Regions
Support for growth strategies
Advice and support for businesses
in the regions
Service units
Standardization and provision of transactional processes with focus on eﬃciency
Transparent costs, performance and pricing

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

Strategy
Positioning as a diversified industrial group
Our positioning as a diversified industrial group is linked to the ambition to generate strong and
stable earnings, cash flow and value added. We diversify our businesses in several ways: through
our presence in numerous markets worldwide, a customer base spanning a range of sectors with
different cycles, and the different business models of our business areas. Diversification enables us
to seize diverse growth opportunities and at the same time increase the stability of our company in
a volatile environment.
To significantly improve our earnings strength we are applying two levers: implementing clearly
defined measures to systematically increase the earning power of the business areas and secure
profitable growth while consistently and systematically leveraging synergies within the Group
through targeted, cross-business initiatives. In the process we are increasingly focusing
thyssenkrupp on profitable capital goods and service businesses in global growth regions and
sectors.
Business opportunities are resulting for thyssenkrupp from global market trends that require more
and better solutions: Demographic change, urbanization, the rapid growth of mega cities, and
globalization mean that global demand is rising (“more”). At the same time the requirements to be
met by the solutions offered are increasing (“better”): We need to use resources efficiently, reduce
the environmental impact of producing consumer and capital goods, and build more sustainable
infrastructure; moreover, increasing digital connectedness around the world requires intelligent
products and solutions.

B U S I N E S S O P P O R T U N I T I E S F O R T H YS S E N K R U P P

Meeting demand for “more”

in a “better” way.

through leading
engineering expertise

Demography
More consumer and
capital goods

Climate change
Reduced CO2 emissions,
renewable energies

Urbanization
More infrastructure
and buildings

Finite resources
Eﬃcient resource and energy
use, alternative energies

Globalization
More resources
and energy use

Regulatory and political
Compliant products
and services

Digitization
More digital
value creation

Increasing connectivity
Intelligent products and
holistic solutions

35

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Strategy

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

We are customer-focused. We use our engineering expertise to develop tailored technological and
business solutions to meet the current and future requirements of our customers and markets and
to satisfy the demand for “more” in a “better” way. We do this in many areas with our technologies,
materials, industrial processes and services, both in industrialized countries and in emerging
markets. This creates value for – and with – our customers and gives us a clear competitive edge.

Successful implementation of the Strategic Way Forward
Our program for positioning thyssenkrupp as a diversified industrial group is the Strategic Way
Forward, which we have been implementing rigorously since May 2011:
The four action areas of our Strategic Way Forward:
Culture change: We work in a matrix structure and have set ourselves high standards in our mission

statement. Alongside a strong focus on customers and performance, our interactions are based on
a clear set of values, transparency, openness and mutual respect. Reliability, honesty, consistency,
integrity, and full compliance with the law and internal policies define everything we do.
HR strategy: Our HR work is aimed at strengthening cooperation and trust, training, and talent
development. We practice a culture that strengthens our employees’ personal responsibility and
gives them room for personal development. Integrity is at the heart of all our business activities.
Performance orientation: For all our businesses we have defined clear targets based on peer
benchmarks for earnings, cash flow and value added. The initiatives and measures to achieve
them are combined in our Groupwide efficiency program “impact”. The methods and systems of
“impact” are a firmly established part of our performance culture.
Customers & markets: Our aim is to grow with our markets and advance our customers by providing

competitive tailored technological solutions that create value for them. To this end we knowingly
and systematically use the strength of the integrated Group. A key role in this is played by the
initiative to strengthen our brand and our brand promise. This is summarized in our new slogan:
engineering.tomorrow.together.

36

€1 billion
With savings of almost €1 billion,
the “impact” target of €850 million
for 2015 / 2016 was again clearly
exceeded.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

T H YS S E N K R U P P – S T R AT E G I C WAY F O R WA R D

Culture change

HR strategy

Performance
orientation

Customers
and markets

Mission
statement

HR Global
2020

Active portfolio
management

thyssenkrupp
brand

Leadership

Employee
excellence

Capital
eﬃciency

Market
intelligence

Employee
survey

Continuous
benchmarking

Sector
strategies

Safety & health

Operational
excellence

Customer
relationships

Functional
excellence

Sales
excellence

Network
organization
Governance
Compliance
Systems &
processes

Diversity &
inclusion
HR transformation

Proﬁtable
growth

Financial
stability

Strategic
push

High-performance
portfolio

Organic
growth

Strong
cash ﬂow

Strengthen
innovation
and technology

Gearing
< 100 %
Equity ratio
> 15 %

Inorganic
growth

Investment
grade

Corporate program impact

By systematically addressing these four strategic action areas we are steadily improving the
financial situation of the Group. That in turn will provide freedom for strategic investments and
research and development, and thus for future growth. In the coming years we aim to continue to
expand profitably in the emerging growth regions and in the industrialized countries.

Management of the Group
The indicators used throughout the Group for profitability, value added and liquidity form the basis
for operational and strategic management decisions at thyssenkrupp. We use them to set targets,
measure performance and determine variable components of management compensation. For us,
the most important financial indicators – the key performance indicators in accordance with
GAS 20 – are adjusted earnings before interest and taxes (adjusted EBIT), thyssenkrupp Value
Added (tkVA) and free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A).
As part of the annual strategy process the Group’s Executive Board defines long-term targets, also for
the business areas. These form the framework for the short and medium term financial targets and also
for the budget and medium term plans which have to be prepared by all units.

37

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

T H YS S E N K R U P P – K E Y P E R F O R M A N C E I N D I C ATO R S

Profitability

Value added

Liquidity

Operating earnings
+/ – operational components of
ﬁnancial income

EBIT

Operating cash flow
+/– cash ﬂows from investing
activities

EBIT

tkV A

+/– cost of capital

+/ – special items

Free cash flow
+/– cash inﬂows / outﬂows from
material M & A transactions

Adjusted EBIT

Free cash flow before M & A

Adjusted EBIT
EBIT provides information on the profitability of a unit. It contains all elements of the income
statement relating to operating performance. This also includes items of financial income/expense
that can be characterized as operational, including income and expense from investments where
there is a long-term intention to hold the assets. Adjusted EBIT is EBIT adjusted for special items,
i.e. excluding disposal losses/gains, restructuring expenses, impairment charges/impairment
reversals and other non-operating expenses and income. It is more suitable than EBIT for
comparing operating performance over several periods.
The Adjusted EBIT of the Group and the business areas and the special items are described in
detail in the sections “Group review” and “Business area review” in the report on the economic
position. Please also refer to the reconciliation in the segment reporting (Note 24).

tkVA
tkVA is the value created in a reporting year. This indicator enables us to compare the financial
performance of businesses with different capital intensity. tkVA is calculated as EBIT minus or plus
the cost of capital employed in the business. Capital employed mainly comprises fixed assets,
inventories and receivables. Deducted from this are certain non-interest-bearing liability items such
as trade accounts payable. To obtain the cost of capital, capital employed is multiplied by the
weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which includes equity, debt and the interest rate for
pension provisions.
Information on tkVA in the reporting year can also be found in the section “Group review”.

38

tkVA is a key performance indicator for
value-based management.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

FCF before M & A
FCF before M & A permits a liquidity-based assessment of performance in a period by measuring
cash flows from operating activities excluding income and expenditures from material portfolio
measures. It is measured as operating cash flow less cash flows from investing activities excluding
cash inflows or outflows from material M & A transactions. This too links more directly to operating
activities and facilitates comparability in multi-period analyses.
A reconciliation and details on the development of FCF before M & A are provided in the analysis of
the statement of cash flows in the section “Results of operations and financial position”.

Definition changes from 2015 / 2016
From the start of the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year we modified the definition of the key performance
indicator cash flow. For investments and disposals, a distinction is now made between M & A
transactions and other acquisitions or disposals of property, plant and equipment. Divestments not
resulting from M & A transactions may include for example the sale of real estate or used machinery.
According to the new definition therefore, FCF is adjusted not for proceeds from divestments but for
cash inflows and outflows from M & A transactions.

Targets
Despite the decline in adjusted EBIT reflecting the sharp downturn in the materials markets in the
reporting year, the multi-year overview and outlook of our key performance indicators show that the
measures under the Strategic Way Forward are having a clear effect. Nevertheless we are still some
way from achieving our sustainable minimum requirement. Ambitious targets for our financial
indicators and systematic improvements in strategic areas, including via indirect financial indicators,
are therefore important elements of the Strategic Way Forward.

Adjusted EBIT
in billion €
1.7
1.3

1.5

1.7

0.5

Financial targets
We are working hard to generate strong, stable positive value added and free cash flow before
M & A again in order to provide the funds needed to expand our growth businesses and pay a solid
dividend to our shareholders. For this we need EBIT of at least €2 billion. We are convinced that we
will achieve the earnings growth needed for this minimum requirement and beyond by strictly
following the Strategic Way Forward in all business areas. We have defined clear targets for this:
■ Components Technology – Profitable growth, medium- to long-term return to EBIT margins of 6%

to 8% through successful ramp-up of new plants and continuation of efficiency and restructuring
measures
■ Elevator Technology – Profitable growth and efficiency and restructuring measures for continuing

improvements to EBIT margin by 0.5 to 0.7 percentage points per year to 15% long-term and an
EBIT contribution of over €1 billion

39

12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 1)
1) Forecast

fiscal year 2016 / 2017

€2 billion
EBIT is our long-term minimum
requirement.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Fundamental information about the Group

■ Industrial Solutions – After implementing the “planets” transformation program, long-term sales

expansion by on average around 5% per year to an absolute target level of €8 billion with a
sustainable EBIT margin of 6% to 7%; details on “planets” can be found in the “Business area
review” section of the Report on the economic position.
■ Materials Services – Return to higher margin levels with recovery of materials markets and

successful restructuring of AST
■ Steel Europe – EBIT improvement through efficiency measures and differentiation initiatives to

sustainably earn more than the cost of capital across the cycle
■ Steel Americas – Further operating improvement with positive EBIT contributions

We expect that further progress on our Strategic Way Forward will again be reflected in our key
performance indicators in fiscal 2016 / 2017. However, it must be borne in mind that sales and
earnings in large parts of our materials and components businesses may be subject to short-term
fluctuations. Nevertheless we expect a strong improvement in adjusted EBIT and tkVA and slightly
positive FCF before M & A.
More information on our key performance indicators can be found in this section under
“Management of the Group”, and details on the forecast for the current fiscal year are provided in
the forecast report.

Sustainability and indirect financial targets
Sustainability is a core component of our corporate strategy. As a diversified industrial group,
thyssenkrupp provides innovative products, technologies and services worldwide that secure the
success of our customers and make a positive contribution to global sustainable development.

Our understanding
of sustainability
Economy

Together with our customers we focus on the future and include economic, ecological and social
considerations in our decision-making processes. This requires a 360° view of our value and
production chains. In this way we improve our performance and strengthen the future of our
company.

Indirect financial targets to secure continuous improvement
A key part of our Strategic Way Forward is the management of indirect financial parameters.
Accordingly, thyssenkrupp has set itself indirect financial targets (IFTs) in the areas technology and
innovations, environment, climate, energy, purchasing and people. Our progress towards these
targets is measured annually by thyssenkrupp’s Sustainability Committee, which includes the
Group Executive Board, the CEOs of the business areas and heads of corporate functions. The
Groupwide targets are factored into the management’s variable compensation via the sustainability
multiplier.
In the reporting year for example further progress was made in the areas energy efficiency, energy
management, and occupational safety and health. More information on the individual targets can
be found in the relevant sections and the detailed sustainability reporting on our website.

40

Products
Processes
Supply chain

Society

Environment

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Sustainability

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

OV E R VI E W O F I N DI R E C T F I N A N C I A L TA R G E T S

3.5 TWh energy efficiency gains
by 2019 / 2020

2014 / 2015

2015 / 2016

Change

Section

TWh

2.2

2.75

+0.55 Environment, energy, climate

100% of relevant activities covered by
ISO 50001 energy management
system by 2019 / 2020

%

25

53

+28%-P. Environment, energy, climate

100% of relevant activities covered by
ISO 14001 environmental management
system by 2019 / 2020

%

77

77

0%-P. Environment, energy, climate

Sustainable adjusted R&D intensity
of around 2.5%

%

2.3

2.6

+0.3%-P.

Technology and innovations

15% share of women in leadership
positions by 2019 / 2020

10% reduction in number of accidents
per million hours worked every year
100 supplier sustainability audits
each year

%

10.2

10.9

+0.7%-P.

Employees

Accidents
per million
hours
worked

4.6

3.7

(20)%

Employees

#

135

185

+50

Purchasing

Report on the economic position
Macro and sector environment
Global growth remains slow in 2016 – only slight increase in momentum
expected for 2017
After expanding at a below-average rate in 2015, the global economy again looks weak for 2016.
According to the latest indicators, global GDP growth is set to slow to 2.8%. Despite continuing
highly expansionary monetary policy, the average growth rate in the industrialized countries is
expected to be only around 1.5%, and in the emerging markets growth looks likely to slow further
to less than 4%. While the world economy should gradually regain momentum in 2017, there are
no signs yet of a strong global upturn. We therefore expect only a slight increase in the global
growth rate to 3.2% in 2017.
The global growth outlook is marked by major uncertainty. One factor in this will be the future
political course of the USA. A sharper slowdown in China could also have a dampening effect. The
fragile economy in oil and raw materials exporting countries remains dependent on the price
situation for oil and raw materials. In addition there are signs of more nationalist economic policies
in some countries of the EU. The recovery in the euro zone remains fragile. Following the Brexit
referendum, uncertainty over the further course of the exit negotiations is expected to weigh on
investment – particularly in Britain itself but also in the other countries of the EU. Furthermore, a

41

3%
Global economic growth of just under
3% expected in 2016, increasing only
slightly in 2017.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

worsening of the situation in the geopolitical flashpoints could heighten uncertainty on the financial
markets and slow the global economy.
The euro zone recorded moderate economic growth in the 1st half 2016. There should initially be
moderate stimulus from a further improvement in the labor market situation, continued favorable
financing conditions, and the relatively low value of the euro. However, in the medium term the
United Kingdom’s planned withdrawal from the EU will weigh on the euro zone economy through
direct trade effects and increased uncertainty in business and consumer spending. We therefore
expect the rate of growth here to slow from 1.6% in 2016 to 1.2% in 2017.
Economic growth in Germany is likely to weaken slightly in 2016 after a strong 1st half – this is
signaled particularly by the moderate order intake and output levels in manufacturing industry. GDP
is expected to grow by 1.7% overall in 2016. In 2017 GDP growth will be dampened by reduced
exports and lower business spending due mainly to the Brexit vote. Economic growth is therefore
forecast to slow slightly to 1.3% in 2017.
With moderately positive growth rates, the performance of the US economy in the 1st half of the
year was weak. However, in the further course of 2016 and also in 2017 the economy is expected
to gain pace with continued support from the main drivers – primarily robust consumer spending, a
solid labor market and very low interest rates. In these favorable conditions business spending
should also accelerate again. Overall the US economy is expected to expand by 1.5% in 2016 and
2.4% in 2017.
After 6.9% growth in the prior year, economic growth in China is expected to slow slightly in 2016,
but at 6.6% will remain within the government’s overall target (6.5% to 7%). For 2017 the pace of
expansion is likely to slow further to 6.2%. This is partly because the government is expected to
hold back from further extensive stimulus programs and instead drive forward the consolidation of
loss-making state-owned businesses and give market forces more freedom in the shift towards a
more domestic demand-based economy. India’s economy remains buoyant: The business
prospects for industrial companies and service providers are good, the implementation of various
infrastructure projects continues. GDP growth is expected to slow only minimally from 7.5% in
2016 to 7.4% in 2017. The economy in Brazil remained in recession in the 1st half of 2016, but in
recent months consumer and business confidence has brightened, indicating an economic turning
point may have been reached. However, in view of significant unemployment, high interest rates
and the indebtedness of private households, the recovery will struggle to gather pace. After
contracting by 3.1% in 2016, GDP is expected to show 0.5% growth in 2017. Russia’s economy
too seems to be gradually stabilizing, as reflected among other things in the industrial output
figures. However, the uncertain political climate will inhibit growth. Following a 1% decline in 2016,
a small 0.3% increase in economic output is forecast for 2017.

42

China slowing slightly, while India’s
economy will remain buoyant. Brazil
possibly reaching an economic turning
point.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT

2016 1)

2017 1)

Real change compared with previous year in %
Euro zone

1.2
1.6

Germany

1.3
1.7

Russia

0.3
(1.0)

Rest of Central /
Eastern Europe

2.7
2.2

USA

2.4
1.5

Brazil

0.5
(3.1)

Japan

0.7
0.5

China

6.2
6.6

India

7.4
7.5

Middle East

2.8
1.9

World

1)

3.2
2.8

Forecast

Heterogeneous trend in industrial activity
Automotive – Global car and light truck production will continue to rise – albeit at a slower pace. In

2016 output is expected to increase by 3% to 89.2 million units. For 2017 moderate growth of just
under 1% is currently forecast – bringing the total production volume in 2017 to 90.2 million units.
Once again this growth will be very unevenly distributed: Frontrunner China is expected to achieve
an 8% increase to 25.4 million units in 2016 thanks to the positive sales market and temporary tax
relief programs; for 2017 we forecast growth of around 1%. At just under 4%, production growth in
Western Europe as a whole is likely to be slightly stronger than in Germany in 2016 – and will
remain stable in 2017. In Germany we forecast low growth for 2016 and a decline of almost 2% for
2017 due to the increasing uncertainty as a result among other things of the Brexit referendum. In
the USA growth of almost 2% is anticipated in 2016. In 2017 US output could decline by up to 4%,
but this should be offset by growth of 20% in Mexico, reflecting the increasing importance of
Mexico as a production location and sales market in the NAFTA region. For Brazilian auto
manufacturers the situation remains very difficult. After a further sharp decline of over 12% in 2016,
we expect production to stabilize at the current very low level in 2017.

43

90.2 million
Global car and light truck production
to reach around 90.2 million units
in 2017.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

I M P O R TAN T S A L E S M A R KE T S
2015

20161)

20171)

World

86.6

89.2

90.2

Western Europe (incl. Germany)

14.1

14.7

14.7

5.9

5.9

5.8

11.8

12.0

11.5

3.4

3.5

4.2

Vehicle production, million cars and light trucks

Germany
USA
Mexico
Japan

8.8

8.7

8.8

China

23.6

25.4

25.7

India

3.7

4.0

4.3

Brazil

2.3

2.0

2.0

Machinery production, real, in % versus prior year
Germany

(0.2)

0.0

0.5

USA

(1.6)

(2.9)

4.6

Japan

(1.3)

(1.3)

1.0

China

5.2

2.5

3.0

Construction output, real, in % versus prior year
Germany

(0.7)

1.7

1.5

USA

5.0

5.0

6.5

China

6.9

6.6

4.6

India

3.4

2.8

6.8

Forecast
Sources: IHS Markit, Oxford Economics, national associations, own estimates
1)

Machinery – After weak growth in 2015, global machinery production will at best be flat in 2016,

only returning to moderate growth in 2017. In China the growth rate will drop to 2.5% in 2016,
rising only slightly to 3% in 2017. The slump in demand for mining machinery continues to impact
the US machinery sector: After a sharp 3% fall in 2016, output will only pick up again in 2017. In
Europe, too, weak global economic growth in 2016 means production volumes in many countries
will increase only slightly or even fall. Moderate growth is expected only in the coming year.
The export-oriented German machinery sector registered a 0.2% fall in production in 2015. The
main reasons for this were the weak economy in many emerging countries, especially in Russia
and Latin America, and only moderate growth in capital spending in Germany and the EU. In view
of the so far sluggish growth in orders, the weak global economy, and various political uncertainties,
production is likely to remain at the prior-year level in 2016. Low growth at best is expected for
2017.

44

Moderate growth in global machinery
production expected only in 2017.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Construction – Construction activity in the euro zone is expected to grow by around 2% in both 2016

and 2017. German construction output decreased by 0.7% in 2015 and has shown only marginal
year-on-year growth in 2016 to date. However, continuing internal migration, the high number of
refugees, a solid labor market – combined with rising private household real incomes – and
continuing low mortgage rates should continue to boost residential construction, while public
sector construction should also increase in 2016 due to higher investment in roads, railways and
waterways. Overall construction growth of 1.7% is forecast for 2016 and 1.5% for 2017. In China
numerous state infrastructure projects will ensure construction output growth slows only slightly; an
increase of 6.6% is predicted for 2016. Next year growth will be lower due to the slowing overall
economy. The US real estate market continues to enjoy a moderate upswing. Despite a temporary
weak phase, the number of housing starts has picked up significantly compared with last year, with
property prices currently around 5.5% higher year-on-year. US construction output is forecast to
grow by 5% in 2016 and 6.5% in 2017.
Steel – The international steel industry continues to navigate difficult waters in 2016. The global

economy is growing only moderately, steel demand remains subdued, and structural overcapacities
mean the sector is coming under massive pressure. This is mainly coming from China, where steel
production continues unabated despite declining demand and the announced capacity reduction
has so far made only slow progress. As a result steel exports from China continued to weigh on the
global markets until well into 2016 – despite the introduction of numerous trade measures which
also affect China. Steel prices on the spot markets, which plummeted to their lowest in several
years in the final quarter of 2015, recovered significantly for the most part by mid-2016. A key
reason for this was again the strong price surge in China – a market with direct impact on the
global price level, but higher raw material prices also accelerated the upturn.
Bolstered by continued solid activity in the steel processing sector – particularly by a rise in
demand from the auto industry – the flat carbon steel market in the EU recorded further growth in
the first 8 months of 2016. However, the competitive situation remained very tight for European
steel manufacturers. While flat steel imports to the EU from third countries increased 10% against
the year before, European suppliers profited little from the market recovery. While order intake was
higher, their sales on the EU market remained unchanged. And the non-EU markets offered no
alternative; exports decreased further as key foreign markets were less receptive. Spot market
prices in Europe followed the global trend, rising strongly from a low level from the end of the 1st
quarter 2016. The antidumping measures imposed among others on China and Russia had a
stabilizing effect in some areas; however, overall imports remained virtually as high as before.
In the USA the steel market contracted again in 2016. With supply noticeably lower – imports in
particular declined steeply, not least as a result of speedily implemented trade restrictions – the
steel price recovery was more pronounced than in other regions. However, towards mid-year
demand and prices weakened. In Brazil the recession continued and steel demand was down again
from the year before.

45

2%
Construction activity in the euro zone
expected to grow by around 2% in
both 2016 and 2017.

Overcapacities weighing on steel
markets.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Global steel demand will grow hardly at all in 2016 and only slightly in 2017, mainly due to the
decline on the Chinese market. However, prospects in the other emerging countries of Asia remain
favorable. With a further sharp decline in 2016, the Brazilian market is expected to bottom out, with
next year bringing increased political stability and slight growth. In the industrialized countries steel
demand will rise only slowly; for both the EU and Germany we expect steel market growth of
around 1%, for the USA 3%. As there are no signs that the global overcapacities can be reined in
quickly, import pressure on the European steel market is expected to remain high. However, there
may be some temporary relief from lower import volumes as a result of ongoing and possible
future trade measures.

Summarized assessment by the Executive Board
Net income and positive free cash flow achieved once again in difficult
materials environment
In a very difficult environment for our materials businesses, especially in the 1st half of the fiscal
year, the measures initiated as part of the Group’s Strategic Way Forward had a clear stabilizing
effect. Thanks to the increasing focus on our higher-margin, less volatile capital goods businesses
and EBIT effects of almost €1 billion from our “impact” efficiency program, we once again
generated net income on a par with the prior year despite high import and price pressure on the
materials markets. Although we also had to contend with a continuing weak market environment
for chemical plants and mining equipment and a lack of major naval shipbuilding orders at
Industrial Solutions, we also once again achieved positive free cash flow; among other factors, this
was due in particular to the strong improvement in net working capital at all our materials
businesses.
However, adjusted EBIT for the full reporting year was lower than a year earlier and failed to meet
the target we set at the start of the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year, mainly due to the difficult materials
environment in the 1st half. The recovery on the materials markets – especially in Europe – came
later than originally expected and from a lower price level. The impact of this was so great that it
overshadowed the overall progress made in the rest of the Group. From the 3rd quarter onwards
the materials markets then showed clear signs of recovery, and spot prices increased overall. In the
final fiscal quarter the Group’s earnings and cash flow were once again higher than a year earlier.
Despite the net income and positive cash flow, gearing rose to 134.2% in the reporting year; this
mainly reflects the remeasurement of pensions as a result of lower interest rates. With cash, cash
equivalents and undrawn committed credit lines totaling €8.0 billion at September 30, 2016 and a
balanced and extended maturity profile, thyssenkrupp is solidly financed.

46

Net income
in million €
195

268

261

– 1,576
– 5,042
11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16

FCF before M & A1) of
full Group
in million €
115

198

– 357
– 625
– 2,590
11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16
1)

until FY 2013 / 14 FCF before divestments

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Further improvement to performance and risk profile in many areas
Overall, thyssenkrupp’s performance and risk profile improved significantly in many areas of the
Group in the past fiscal year. Components Technology reported higher adjusted EBIT and margins
and acquired significant major orders for its new electric power-assisted steering systems. Elevator
Technology achieved further significant earnings and margin improvements and reached important
strategic milestones in its growth strategy. Industrial Solutions launched an extensive
transformation program to increase its efficiency and strengthen its customer focus. Materials
Services introduced numerous measures for the digital transformation and made important
progress in the implementation of its business plan for the stainless steel producer AST. Steel
Europe initiated an extensive program to secure its long-term competitiveness and aligned its
management structures more strongly to customers and markets. Steel Americas managed to
increase output and shipments, strengthen its market position, further significantly reduce losses
and generate positive cash flow. Moreover we received the operating license from the Brazilian
authorities and acquired the minority shares in CSA held by Vale, significantly reducing complexity
and risks and giving us greater room to maneuver for the further development of CSA.
On this basis we look to the new fiscal year with cautious optimism and expect substantial earnings
increases. We are systematically continuing to transform thyssenkrupp into an efficient, profitable
and value-creating diversified industrial group.
More information on our target achievement in the reporting year can be found in the “Forecastactual comparison”, while details of our business performance are included in “Group review” and
“Business area review”. Details of our forecast for the current fiscal year and our opportunities and
risks are contained in the “Forecast, opportunity and risk report”.

47

We look to the new fiscal year with
cautious optimism and expect
substantial earnings increases.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Key figures for the full Group and the continuing operations versus the prior year are shown in the
following table:

T H YS S E N K R UP P I N F I G U R E S
Full Group

Continuing operations

Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Change

Year ended
Year ended
in % Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Change

in %

Order intake

million €

41,318

37,424

(3,894)

(9)

41,318

37,424

(3,894)

(9)

Net sales

million €

42,778

39,263

(3,515)

(8)

42,778

39,263

(3,515)

(8)

EBIT 1)

million €

1,050

1,189

139

13

1,061

1,189

129

12

%

2.5

3.0

0.5

–

2.5

3.0

0.5

–

million €

1,676

1,469

(207)

(12)

1,676

1,469

(207)

(12)

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT 1)
Adjusted EBIT margin

%

3.9

3.7

(0.2)

–

3.9

3.7

(0.2)

–

EBT

million €

485

652

167

34

496

652

157

32

Net income/(loss) /
Income/(loss) (net of tax)

million €

268

261

(6)

(2)

279

261

(17)

(6)

attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s
shareholders
Earnings per share (EPS)

million €

309

296

(13)

(4)

320

296

(23)

(7)

€

0.55

0.52

(0.03)

(5)

0.57

0.52

(0.05)

(8)

Operating cash flows
(consolidated statement of cash flows)

million €

1,300

1,387

87

7

1,311

1,387

76

6

Cash flow for investments

million €

(1,235)

(1,387)

(152)

(12)

(1,235)

(1,387)

(152)

(12)

Cash flow from divestments

million €

597

191

(406)

(68)

597

191

(406)

(68)

Free cash flow 2)

million €

662

191

(470)

(71)

673

191

(481)

(72)

Free cash flow before M & A 2)

million €

115

198

83

72

126

198

71

56

Net financial debt (Sept. 30)

million €

3,414

3,500

86

3

Total equity (Sept. 30)

million €

3,307

2,609

(698)

(21)

%

103.2

134.2

31.0

–

Gearing (Sept. 30)
ROCE
thyssenkrupp Value Added
Dividend per share
Dividend payout

%

6.5

7.5

1.0

–

million €

(399)

(85)

314

79

€

0.15

0.153)

–

–

million €

85

853)

–

–

154,906

156,487

1,581

1

Employees (Sept. 30)
1)
2)
3)

See reconciliation in segment reporting (Note 24).
See reconciliation in the analysis of the statement of cash flows.
Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

48

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Forecast-actual comparison
We achieved the targets formulated at the beginning of the reporting year for the key performance
indicators thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA) and free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A);
however – despite the solid performance of our capital goods businesses and further significant
contributions from our efficiency program “impact” – we did not meet the Group’s earnings targets.
This reflects above all the high import and price pressure on the materials markets which
particularly in Europe had a stronger and more sustained impact than expected. Also the chemical
plant, mining equipment and naval shipbuilding businesses at Industrial Solutions performed below
forecasts, with customers holding back on major projects. In this extremely difficult environment,
sales and earnings were lower than planned. Nevertheless we achieved a significant improvement
in tkVA and even a year-on-year increase in FCF before M & A as planned on account of lower
special items and reduced capital employed.

Value added and cash flow targets
met. Sales and earnings lower than
planned.

Our targets as adjusted in the half-year report against the background of the – particularly in the
1st half – very weak materials environment were met or exceeded thanks to a strong increase in
earnings and cash flow in the 2nd half. This was partly the result of the pleasing performance of
Components Technology and Steel Americas, whose earnings were higher than expected mainly
due to operating progress. Above all Steel Americas clearly exceeded expectations in the reporting
year – despite the difficult 1st half – on the back of efficiency improvements, the market recovery in
the 2nd half, and positive exchange rate effects.

Strong increase in earnings and cash
flow in 2nd half.

The Group’s overall business performance was again strongly supported by our corporate program.
The “impact” target of reducing costs by €850 million that we formulated for 2015 / 2016 at the
beginning of the fiscal year was again substantially exceeded with savings of almost €1 billion.
More information on the factors that influenced the development of earnings is contained in the
sections “Group review” and “Business area review”.

49

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The following chart contains details on the forecasts, updated in each case on publication of the
interim reports on the 1st half and the first nine months of the reporting year, and the actual results
in 2015 / 2016:

F O R E C A S T AN D AC T U A L R E S U LT S F O R F I S C A L Y E AR 2 0 1 5 / 2 0 1 6

Group sales
Components Technology
Elevator Technology
Industrial Solutions

Forecast in
annual report 2014 / 2015

Update in interim report
1st half 2015 / 2016

On comparable basis
at prior-year level

Decline on comparable
basis in single-digit % range

Update in interim report
9 months 2015 / 2016

On comparable basis: (7)%
On comparable basis: +1%

Growth on comparable
basis in single-digit % range

On comparable basis: +4%
Slight decline on
comparable basis

Sideways movement

Materials Services
Steel Europe

Components Technology

Significant decline
by comparison

Weaker by comparison

On comparable basis: (12)%
On comparable basis: (18)%

€1.6 to 1.7 billion

Elevator Technology

Industrial Solutions

Net sales, margin and therefore
adjusted EBIT
at prior-year level

Decline by €207 million to
€1,469 million

At least €1.4 billion

At least at prior-year level
Improvement through sales
growth and
increase in margin by 0.5 to 0.7
percentage points

Slightly above prior-year level

Slight decline in sales with
margin at
bottom end of target range of 67%

tkVA
FCF before M & A

Investments

Decline by €69 million to
€355 million
Decline in margin by
0.6 percentage points to 6.2%
Decline by €78 million to
€128 million

Targeted at prior-year level

Considerable decline compared
with prior year

Steel Americas
Net income

Improvement by €22 million
to €335 milion
Improvement by €66 million to
€860 million
Improvement of margin by
0.5 percentage points to 11.5%

Materials Services
Steel Europe

On comparable basis: (8)%
On comparable basis: (11)%

Steel Americas
Adjusted EBIT

Actual fiscal year 2015 / 2016

Decline by €177 million to
€315 million
Significant improvement

Significant improvement

At prior-year level

Significant improvement
versus prior-year pro forma
comparative

In the range of pro forma

At prior-year level

Improvement by €105 million to
€(33) million
Decline by €6 million to
€261 million

prior-year comparative

Improvement by €153 million
to €(85) million

Between low 3-digit millon €
negative and breakeven

Improvement by €83 million
to €198 million
Increase in comparison to prior
year by €152 million to
Lower than €1.5 billion
€1,387 million

Around €1.5 billion

50

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Group review
Course of business
Components Technology and Elevator Technology with stabilizing effect on order intake
and sales in difficult materials environment
Order intake and sales of the thyssenkrupp Group declined sharply in the past fiscal year. This was
mainly due to the following reasons: The materials businesses came under very high import and
price pressure particularly in the 1st half of the fiscal year, the market environment for chemical
plants and mining equipment was weak, and the prior year included larger naval contracts.
However, the performance of Components Technology and Elevator Technology, whose order intake
and sales were level with or higher than a year earlier, had a stabilizing effect.

Materials businesses, market
environment for chemical plants and
mining equipment, and absence of
larger naval contracts led to declines
in order intake and sales.

O R D E R I NTA K E BY B U SI N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Change on a
comparable basis1)
in %

Components Technology

6,826

6,740

(1)

(1)

Elevator Technology

7,704

7,631

(1)

(1)

Industrial Solutions

4,871

3,461

(29)

(29)

Materials Services

million €

13,945

11,840

(15)

(10)

Steel Europe

8,421

8,146

(3)

(3)

Steel Americas

1,723

1,525

(11)

(14)

196

243

24

24

Consolidation

(2,368)

(2,162)

–

–

Total order intake

41,318

37,424

(9)

(8)

Corporate

1)

Excluding material currency and portfolio effects

Order intake at the capital goods businesses Components Technology, Elevator Technology and
Industrial Solutions was lower year-on-year overall. While new orders at Components Technology
and Elevator Technology were largely stable, they declined significantly at Industrial Solutions. This
reflects the absence of major naval contracts from the prior year and in particular the continued
weak market environment for chemical plants and mining equipment. Continuing low and volatile
oil and raw material prices were the reason for customer caution in placing orders. Nevertheless we
won numerous contracts in the Process Technologies and Resource Technologies businesses in the
reporting period, profiting inter alia from strong demand for electrolysis plants and cement plants.
At System Engineering new orders for production systems for the auto industry increased to a new
record level. The contracts won reflect our strong market and technology positions.
In the Components Technology business area we took advantage of generally robust demand
growth for car components and were able to offset the difficult environment for truck and
construction equipment components. One particularly pleasing aspect was the positive customer
response to our new electric power-assisted steering systems – an important basis for expected
growth in the coming fiscal years. Order intake in the Elevator Technology business area was level
with the prior year and again higher than sales; orders in hand reached a new record level.

51

We hold strong market and technology
positions in electrolysis plants, cement
plants and production systems for the
auto industry.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

At the materials businesses Materials Services, Steel Europe and Steel Americas, order intake was
down from the prior year. This was mainly due to significant price declines and was also true on a
comparable basis – i.e. excluding the disposal of the VDM and RIP groups at Materials Services in
the prior year. By contrast, order volumes in our steel businesses were significantly higher year-onyear on the whole.

N E T S A L E S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Change on a
comparable basis1)
in %

Components Technology

6,753

6,807

1

1

Elevator Technology

7,208

7,468

4

4

Industrial Solutions

6,256

5,744

(8)

(8)

Materials Services

million €

14,254

11,886

(17)

(11)

Steel Europe

8,697

7,633

(12)

(12)

Steel Americas

1,773

1,489

(16)

(18)

194

255

32

32

Consolidation

(2,357)

(2,020)

–

–

Total net sales

42,778

39,263

(8)

(7)

Corporate

1)

Excluding material currency and portfolio effects

As with order intake, the contributions of Components Technology and Elevator Technology also
had a stabilizing effect on the Group’s sales performance but were unable to offset the continuing
weak market environment for chemical plants and mining equipment and lower sales in naval
shipbuilding at Industrial Solutions and above all the strong import and price pressure on the
materials markets. Materials Services and Steel Europe were impacted in particular by negative
price effects, compounded at Steel Europe by lower volumes. However, the biggest percentage
drop in sales was recorded by Steel Americas, even though shipments there increased significantly
due to good progress made in production and in building long-term customer relationships. This
situation reflects the particularly dramatic price falls in the 1st half of the fiscal year, which the
strong recovery in average selling prices in the final quarter was unable to offset.
The regional breakdown of sales was largely stable. The most important sales market for
thyssenkrupp with an unchanged 29% of sales was once again the German-speaking region,
combining Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Sales to customers in Central and
Eastern Europe gained relatively in importance; here declines in the materials businesses were
largely offset by growth in our capital goods businesses. By contrast, sales to the Middle East &
Africa declined despite sales growth in our elevator business; in addition to declines in our
materials businesses this mainly reflects deliveries in the naval shipbuilding business as well as
billing-related declines in chemical plant business at Industrial Solutions.

52

Components Technology and Elevator
Technology had a stabilizing effect on
Group sales.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

S A L E S BY R E G I O N 1)
in million € (prior-year ﬁgures in brackets)
Western Europe

6,871
(7,549)

Central and
German-speaking Eastern Europe
Commonwealth
area2)
of Independent
States
2,163
(2,260)

North America

11,514

361

(12,540)

9,055

Greater
China

(341)

2,876
(3,076)

(9,836)

India

Asia / Pacific

1,821
(2,019)

539

Middle East &
Africa

South America

(558)

2,427
(2,808)

1,636
(1,790)

1)
2)

Prior-year ﬁ gures adjusted to new regional organization in ﬁ scal 2015 / 2016.
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein

S A L E S BY C U S TO M E R G R O U P 2015/2016
in %

25
Automotive

8
Engineering

14
Steel and related
processing

5
Public sector

12

11

Trading

Construction

3

3

Energy and
utilities

Packaging

53

19
Other customer
groups

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Accounting for a further increased share of 25% of sales, the automotive industry remained
thyssenkrupp’s most important customer group, particularly for our components and steel
businesses. It is followed by steel and related processing and trading, which are highly important
for our materials businesses and account for a high but declining share of total sales. The
construction industry gained further in importance, accounting for 11% of Group sales and roughly
half the sales of our elevator business.

Adjusted EBIT lower on the whole despite high efficiency gains from “impact” program
The Group’s adjusted EBIT declined in the reporting year. The main reason was the very difficult
environment for our materials businesses, particularly in the 1st half of the fiscal year. EBIT effects
of almost €1 billion from our efficiency program “impact” were overshadowed above all by high
import and price pressure on the materials markets but contributed – alongside the recovery in the
market environment – to a clear earnings improvement in the 2nd half. In the final quarter the
Group’s adjusted EBIT was higher than the prior-year figure.

A D J U S T E D E B I T BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Components Technology

313

335

7

Elevator Technology

794

860

8

Industrial Solutions

424

355

(16)

Materials Services

206

128

(38)

Steel Europe

492

315

(36)

Steel Americas

(138)

(33)

76

Corporate

(414)

(497)

(20)

(1)

6

–

1,676

1,469

(12)

million €

Consolidation
Total adjusted EBIT 1)
1)

See reconciliation in segment reporting (Note 24).

In the capital goods businesses, adjusted EBIT was higher than a year earlier, supported by
sustainable efficiency and cost-reduction measures. The profitable growth at Components
Technology and Elevator Technology more than offset the decline at Industrial Solutions due to
lower sales and margins. Components Technology improved its adjusted EBIT margin in the
reporting year by 0.3 percentage points and in the 4th quarter 2015 / 2016 increased its adjusted
EBIT and margin year-on-year for the sixth time in a row. Elevator Technology again improved its
margin in the reporting year by 0.5 percentage points and in the final quarter increased its
earnings and margin year-on-year for the 16th time in succession. At Industrial Solutions, adjusted
EBIT margin overall declined by 0.6 percentage points but at 6.2% remained in the target range of
6 to 7%.

54

Adjusted EBIT in the capital goods
businesses was higher on the whole
than a year earlier.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

At the materials businesses, adjusted EBIT was down significantly from the prior year overall
despite continuous quarter-on-quarter improvements in the course of the reporting year and
pleasing progress at Steel Americas. At Materials Services and Steel Europe extensive “impact”
measures were unable to offset the high import and price pressure that impacted European
business in particular well into the fiscal year and led to declining average selling prices and also to
lower shipments, particularly at Steel Europe. At Materials Services the absence of the earnings
contributions of the VDM and RIP groups sold in the prior year also had an impact. The business
area achieved clear progress implementing the business plan for AST; the Italian company made a
positive contribution to adjusted EBIT despite generally falling stainless steel prices and
corresponding inventory losses. Steel Americas significantly improved its adjusted EBIT and
reduced its losses thanks to efficiency and volume gains, the price recovery in the 2nd half and
positive exchange rate effects.

Earnings impacted by special items
EBIT was impacted by special items in the reporting year; however, the impacts were much less
than in the prior year. The prior-year effects included higher pre-tax expense at Materials Services
in connection with the sale of the VDM group and high expense at Corporate in connection with a
settlement with The Budd Company, a non-operating former US subsidiary in liquidation.

S P E C I A L I T E M S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Components Technology

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change

19

84

65

132

90

(42)

Industrial Solutions

(1)

22

22

Materials Services

244

52

(192)

Steel Europe

(22)

(1)

21

9

(11)

(21)

235

45

(190)

(1)

0

–

615

280

(335)

Elevator Technology

Steel Americas
Corporate
Consolidation
Total special items

In the reporting period there were special items on a notable scale at Components Technology:
Firstly due to the closure because of flooding of a factory in the UK in the Springs and Stabilizers
business; and secondly due to restructuring and impairment charges for adapting capacities to the
weak market situation in Brazil, the USA and Germany in the Forging & Machining business. In
addition, there were plant closures in the construction machinery component business. At Elevator
Technology there were special items from the restructuring and reorganization in Europe and the
Middle East. At Industrial Solutions there were initial special items in connection with the

55

The impacts of special items on EBIT
were much less than in the prior year.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

reorganization and the restructuring measures. Further, mainly restructuring-related special items
were recorded at Materials Services. At Steel Europe special items had hardly any net impact;
impairment charges for a real estate property after end of use were largely offset by the reversal of
impairment in connection with the reopening of a hot-dip galvanizing line in Spain. At Steel
Americas there were net positive special items from the updated valuation of a long-term freight
contract. At Corporate the special items mainly resulted from expenses in connection with disposal
projects and restructurings.

thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA) significantly improved from prior year
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016 the tkVA of the thyssenkrupp Group remained negative but was
significantly improved from the prior year. The improvement was attributable to higher EBIT due to
lower special items, a decline in capital employed, and lower weighted average cost of capital
(WACC) rates. We reduced capital employed above all in the materials businesses among other
things by reducing net working capital. At Materials Services this also reflects the prior-year
disposal of the VDM and RIP groups. However, there was a slight increase in average capital
employed at Components Technology. In addition, there was a significant rise in capital employed
at Industrial Solutions; here the figure was less negative year-on-year due to lower advance
payments and the working down of the existing order backlog. At the beginning of the reporting
year we reduced the WACC rates to reflect the lower costs of borrowed capital and pension
provisions. However, we also significantly increased tkVA for the Group compared with the prioryear figure applying the updated WACC (pro-forma prior-year comparative €(238) million). The
highest tkVA was once again generated by Elevator Technology, which also recorded another
significant year-on-year improvement. The tkVA of the materials businesses was negative; however,
on the whole it improved year-on-year. Details on tkVA and its main components are shown in the
following table.

T H YS S E N K R UP P VA LU E A D D E D ( T K VA ) BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended Sept. 30, 2015

Group

Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

EBIT
(million €)

Capital
employed
(million €)

WACC
(%)

tkVA
(million €)

EBIT
(million €)

Capital
employed
(million €)

WACC
(%)

tkVA
(million €)

Change tkVA
(million €)

1,050

16,106

9.0

(399)

1,189

15,933

8.0

(85)

314

(30)

Thereof:
Components Technology

294

3,530

9.0

(23)

251

3,587

8.5

(54)

Elevator Technology

662

1,289

8.0

559

771

1,197

7.5

681

122

Industrial Solutions

425

(1,554)

8.5

557

333

(475)

8.0

371

(187)

Materials Services

(38)

4,566

9.0

(449)

76

3,861

8.0

(233)

216

Steel Europe

514

5,265

9.5

14

316

5,012

8.5

(110)

(124)

(147)

2,167

10.5

(374)

(22)

2,145

10.0

(236)

138

Steel Americas

More information on the importance of tkVA and EBIT for the management of the Group is
contained in the section “Fundamental information about the Group”, subsection “Management of
the Group”.

56

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Business area review
Components Technology
CO M P O N E N T S T E C H N O LO G Y I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

million €

6,826

6,740

(1)

Net sales

million €

6,753

6,807

1

EBIT

million €

294

251

(15)

Order intake

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

4.4

3.7

–

million €

313

335

7

%

4.6

4.9

–

29,627

30,751

4

The Components Technology business area produces and markets high-tech components
worldwide for the automotive and machinery sectors. In the auto sector the product range includes
assembled camshafts, cylinder head cover modules with integrated camshafts, and crankshafts
(Powertrain); steering and damping systems, springs and stabilizers as well as the assembly of axle
modules (Chassis). In the machinery sector the business area supplies high-quality components
for construction equipment, wind turbines and numerous general engineering applications. This
broad spectrum of products is built on years of experience in innovative materials and forging
processes within the business area. Components Technology covers the entire value chain, from
the development and manufacture of high-performance components through to machining and
complex assembly processes. Mechatronic solutions using electronics and software developed inhouse are playing an increasingly important role. With our end-to-end technical expertise and
global market presence we are a reliable partner providing customers with real added value.

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Corporate structure

Our aim: To be innovator and
partner to our customers thanks to
our engineering expertise and
global market presence.

Positive performance in difficult markets – major orders from auto industry and
optimization of automotive production network
In a mixed market environment, order intake at Components Technology was down slightly yearon-year, sales slightly higher. While the markets for car components in Western Europe, the USA
and China showed robust growth, demand in Brazil and Russia continued to fall sharply. The heavy
truck markets, particularly in Brazil and the USA, also remained weak. Sales of industrial
components, above all in the wind energy sector, increased, while demand for construction
equipment components continued to decline.
In the steering systems business we profited from new orders from international OEMs worth
around €7 billion over the product lifecycle. The orders are for the development and production
delivery of electric power-assisted steering systems for major model platforms. The electric powerassisted steering systems from thyssenkrupp are more energy-efficient than conventional hydraulic
steering systems and therefore allow fuel savings; they are also a prerequisite for electronic driver
assistance systems. With this technology we have already successfully established our position in
the premium segment and are increasingly growing in the high-volume mid-size and compact car
segments and the big auto markets such as China and North America.

57

Customers value our steering systems
for their energy efficiency.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

We made further progress with the implementation of our profitable growth and regionalization
strategy in the reporting year; in particular new plants in Mexico and Hungary were opened or are
in the planning or early implementation phase. At the same time by concentrating production of
various technologies at a single manufacturing location, we are gaining considerable competitive
and cost advantages. In Mexico for example we are expanding our existing production activities –
engine and steering system components, springs and stabilizers, axle module assembly – to
include cylinder head cover modules and damper systems; in Hungary in addition to axle module
assembly we will also be producing electric power-assisted steering systems and cylinder head
cover modules in the future.

Higher earnings thanks to efficiency measures
Adjusted EBIT of Components Technology was again higher than a year earlier. Positive factors
were above all improvements in car components (among other things due to the ramp-up of new
cover module plants) and wind energy, which more than offset declines in truck components and
the weak market performance in Brazil. Adjusted EBIT margin also improved on the back of
efficiency measures and cost reductions in production and purchasing. EBIT of Components
Technology was down from the prior year on account of special items.

Elevator Technology
E L E VATO R T E C H N O L OG Y I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Orders in hand (Sept. 30)

million €

4,863

4,974

2

Order intake

million €

7,704

7,631

(1)

Net sales

million €

7,208

7,468

4

EBIT

million €

662

771

16

%

9.2

10.3

–

million €

794

860

8

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

11.0

11.5

–

51,335

51,426

0

The Elevator Technology business area delivers innovative technology for efficient urban mobility. It
supplies passenger and freight elevators, escalators and moving walks, passenger boarding
bridges, stair and platform lifts as well as providing service for the entire product range. A tight-knit
service network with competent employees at over 900 locations keeps us close to customers with
our customized, intelligent, reliable and safe solutions and services for personal transportation. In
this way we create tangible value for our customers and strengthen confidence in our brand.

58

Elevator Technology offers
advanced, comfortable and
resource-friendly systems and
services.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Order intake largely stable at high level; sales at new high
The business area’s order intake in fiscal 2015 / 2016 was largely level with the prior year also on a
comparable basis and continues to profit from increased demand for new installations, especially in
the USA and South Korea. Despite increased price pressure, orders for new installations in China
were slightly up from a year earlier; here we secured additional orders following the acquisition of a
majority shareholding in Marohn Elevator. However, orders for new installations in Europe, Brazil
and the Middle East decreased. Service business, which is particularly important for thyssenkrupp
in Europe, was expanded. Orders in hand at Elevator Technology reached a new record level in the
reporting year.

High demand for new installations.

The business area’s sales in the reporting year were significantly higher than the year before. This
pleasing growth is the result of strong demand for new installations and positive results in the
service business. Elevator Technology’s sales increased particularly strongly in the USA and South
Korea, while sales in Europe and China were only slightly higher year-on-year.

Key strategic milestones achieved
In the implementation of our comprehensive growth strategy, Elevator Technology achieved key
milestones as planned in fiscal 2015 / 2016: In mid-October 2015 the foundation stone was laid for
our new elevator plant in India; in March 2016 the new multifunctional building in Shanghai was
inaugurated. The business area therefore remains on expansion course and is systematically
continuing its long-term strategy in Asia.
With the inauguration of the multifunctional building in the Neuhausen technology park near
Stuttgart in December 2015 we successfully completed the main investments planned for the
modernization of our elevator plant. Meanwhile some 90 kilometers further southwest in Rottweil,
the construction of the 246 meter tall elevator test tower is proceeding to schedule. On completion
at the end of 2016 the tower will be used among other things to test and certify our groundbreaking MULTI elevator system: Featuring several cars moving vertically and for the first time also
horizontally in the same shaft, MULTI will open up completely new possibilities in terms of building
planning, design and use. In November 2015 thyssenkrupp presented a fully functional 1:3 scale
model of this innovative system at its innovation center in Gijón (Spain). MULTI is a joint
development of the business areas Elevator Technology, Components Technology and Industrial
Solutions, the project was coordinated by Corporate Technology, Innovation & Sustainability: an
impressive example of how we use the combined strength of the Group for innovations.
With the help of the Internet of Things (IOT) and big data, we will significantly increase the safety
and availability of elevators. MAX is the name of the industry’s first cloud-based predictive
maintenance solution, developed by Elevator Technology. With MAX we aim to take the availability,
reliability and efficiency of elevators to a whole new level. The intelligent, machine learning solution
uses the enormous potential of the Internet of Things and by means of real-time diagnostics can
significantly reduce elevator downtimes: MAX identifies maintenance issues before they occur;
service technicians are informed in advance when components and systems need replacing. We
plan to monitor around 180,000 elevators worldwide with MAX by the end of 2017.

59

246m
The test tower for elevator innovations
will be 246 m tall.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Further earnings and margin improvement
In the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year Elevator Technology again significantly improved its adjusted EBIT
year-on-year as a result of higher sales and margins. The earnings and margin improvement
reflects a positive operating performance and the efficiency and restructuring measures under the
corporate program “impact”. Despite the continuing difficult market situation in Europe, adjusted
EBIT margin improved year-on-year by 0.5 percentage points to 11.5%. EBIT includes special
items primarily due to restructuring measures in the Middle East and Europe.

Industrial Solutions
I N D U S T R I A L S O LU T I O N S I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Orders in hand (Sept. 30)

million €

12,307

9,908

(19)

Order intake

million €

4,871

3,461

(29)

Net sales

million €

6,256

5,744

(8)

EBIT

million €

425

333

(22)

%

6.8

5.8

–

million €

424

355

(16)

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

%

6.8

6.2

–

19,388

19,602

1

In the reporting year the Industrial Solutions business area comprised four business units with a
broad spectrum of capabilities in project business: Process Technologies builds chemical plants
and refineries; Resource Technologies provides innovative solutions for the extraction and
processing of raw materials and builds equipment for the mining and cement industries; System
Engineering supplies production systems for the automotive industry; Marine Systems stands for
naval shipbuilding.

Order intake and sales down overall, mixed picture in the business units
In the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year the market environment for Industrial Solutions was persistently
difficult: Oil and raw material prices remained volatile at a low level. Order intake decreased sharply.
In the Process Technologies business unit order intake declined steeply; chemical plant customers
held back on investments. Nevertheless, with gas prices remaining low the US continues to be an
attractive market for us, and we see growth opportunities in the Middle East, North Africa, and
Asia-Pacific regions which we can exploit with our competitive offerings. Advantages here are our
technological strength and our ability to provide custom solutions thanks to our regional presence.
There was sustained demand for electrolysis plants in the reporting year, among other things we
won mid-size orders for plants in Belgium and China.

60

0.5
Adjusted EBIT margin improved by
0.5 percentage points.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The Resource Technologies business unit also recorded a sharp decline in order intake. Strong
demand for cement plants with a major order from Yamama Cement in Saudi Arabia in the 1st
quarter was not enough to offset continued subdued investment above all in new mining
equipment. Resource Technologies received further orders from customers in Australia, Canada,
Serbia, India and the USA. In the cement business customers value our wide offering of
engineering, procurement and construction services for turnkey cement lines. A further major
advantage is our technological flexibility with regard to the fuels used: With this we enable
customers to respond to price changes in the energy sector and increase the profitability of their
plants. In the mining business we won several medium-size orders in a weak market environment
and are seeing initial signs of a market recovery in individual regions. To further strengthen our
mining business we widened our technology portfolio for standard machinery and invested in
associated infrastructure and equipment. In the service business we further expanded our 360degree lifecycle services, which offer customers solutions throughout the entire lifecycle of mines
and plants – from spare parts supply and management and field services to asset management.
The integrated asset management solutions help increase plant performance and reduce total cost
of ownership.
The System Engineering business unit achieved record order intake in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year,
breaking the billion barrier for the first time. This was mainly thanks to brisk demand for production
systems for the automobile industry, particularly from customers in Europe and Asia. Among other
things we won several major orders for body-in-white lines from leading German OEMs. We also
succeeded in further strengthening our position in the electromobility market, receiving orders for
the supply of battery assembly lines for example in China and the USA.
Marine Systems booked only smaller maintenance and service orders, e.g. for India, in the
reporting year. Marine Systems is currently bidding for several major projects; in particular we are
participating in the Europe-wide tender for the multi-role combat ship MKS 180 of the German Navy
and pursuing submarine projects for India and Norway among others.
Sales in the Industrial Solutions business area declined as a result of the lower number of
milestone billings in chemical plant construction, mining equipment and naval shipbuilding.
However, at System Engineering the strongly positive sales trend continued.

Earnings down year-on-year; margin within target range –
“planets” transformation program launched
Adjusted EBIT at €355 million was down year-on-year, in line with the drop in sales. Adjusted EBIT
margin remained within the target range of 6% to 7%, supported by the effects of “impact”: Under
the corporate program we implemented diverse cost-reduction measures, created synergies
through the integration of the plant engineering business, and made further savings by optimizing
sales and purchasing processes.

61

Order intake
System Engineering
in million €

852

918

1,029

13/14 14/15 15/16

+ 12%

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

In a dynamic and highly challenging environment, the new leadership team is currently
implementing the “planets” transformation program to focus Industrial Solutions more firmly on
customers, markets and the high-margin service business. We want to safeguard growth and
efficiency over the long term and drive forward culture change in the business area. A central
approach to enhancing efficiency and flexibility involves bringing together our entire plant
engineering capabilities in a Network of Excellence. As well as giving us greater planning flexibility,
this will allow us to optimize capacity management and increase value added in the regions. We are
also currently reviewing the set-up of the individual operating units in the business area as a whole
and implementing measures to further strengthen our competitiveness.
Under “planets” we introduced a new organizational structure and refilled key management
positions as of the start of the new fiscal year from October 1, 2016. Industrial Solutions now has
eight business units: Fertilizer & Syngas Technologies, Electrolysis & Polymer Technologies and
Industrial Specialties in chemical plant engineering, Mining Technologies, Cement Technologies,
Service, Marine Systems and System Engineering. This means the management tier of the former
Resource Technologies and Process Technologies units has been eliminated, which will increase
efficiency and transparency, strengthen the responsibility of the operating units, and shorten
decision-making processes. Across all business units, alongside our traditional engineering,
procurement and construction activities we want to significantly increase the share of service
business and achieve sales growth both with individual products and machines and also through
system integration. This will make our business generally more stable and less dependent on
individual major orders and market cycles.

Industrial Solutions wants to focus
more firmly on customers,
markets, and the high-margin
service business.

We are bundling together our plant
engineering services and want to
increase the share of service in the
business area’s sales to around a third
on a long term basis.

Materials Services
M AT E R I A L S SE R VI C E S I N FI G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Order intake

million €

13,945

11,840

(15)

Net sales

million €

14,254

11,886

(17)

EBIT

million €

(38)

76

++

%

(0.3)

0.6

–

million €

206

128

(38)

%

1.4

1.1

–

20,226

19,754

(2)

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

With around 480 branches in 40 countries, the Materials Services business area is focused on
global materials distribution. The service portfolio covers a wide range of custom services – from
materials advice and procurement to quality management and logistics services to individual
supply chain solutions. We also perform technical and infrastructure services for the manufacturing
sector. The cornerstones of our business are our deep understanding of the market, our
international setup and our engaged and motivated employees.

62

Materials Services profits from a
deep understanding of the market,
an international setup and
engaged and motivated
employees.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

In assessing the figures for Materials Services it is important to note that in the 2014 / 2015 fiscal
year the VDM group was still included until July 2015 and the RIP group in Brazil until November
2014.

Orders and sales down year-on-year mainly due to lower prices
The fiscal year was characterized by sharply declining prices for almost all materials, the severity
and persistence of which in some cases into the 2nd half-year were graver than generally
expected. Accordingly order intake and sales were clearly down year-on-year; on a comparable
basis the declines were 10% and 11% respectively.

Order intake and sales clearly lower
year-on-year.

In the warehouse and service business all regions and units were affected by the fall in sales; this
was also true of our processing services, though here volumes were appreciably higher year-onyear. With the acquisition of service centers in Spain and Hungary we further strengthened our
position as a partner particularly to the auto industry. The biggest drop in sales was recorded by
our global direct-to-customer and trading operations: While the prior year included an unusually
large individual order, in the reporting year sales were impacted by numerous trade barriers. Our
logistics services for the aerospace sector performed significantly better; contributory factors here
were new long-term orders and the expansion of our global network. Sales of the production and
distribution operations of AST in Italy were down from the prior year despite an almost 10% rise in
volumes; this reflected particularly clearly the weak stainless steel price situation. Altogether the
Materials Services business units sold 12.6 million tons of materials compared with 13.4 million
tons a year earlier; this included 0.9 million tons of flat-rolled stainless steel products from AST
(prior year: 0.8 million tons). Sales of metals in the warehousing and service business were
virtually level with the prior year at 6.2 million tons. Our global direct-to-customer and trading
business recorded sales of 3.4 million tons, compared with 4.0 million tons the year before. We
sold 3.0 million tons of raw materials, around half a million tons less than a year earlier. Shipments
of coke and coal fell sharply, but shipments of nickel ore were significantly higher.

Digitization as an element of customer focus and efficiency enhancement
In our business, customer focus and strong reliability are key success factors. Creating added
value for our customers is central to our brand promise and our initiatives. As part of the ongoing
digitization of our business processes and distribution channels, which are based on our
sophisticated warehousing, logistics and IT systems, we already operate several modern internet
shops and portals for our existing customers and end users. Since the beginning of the year, end
customers in selected European countries have been able to order materials for the first time from
our new “materials4me” online shop. More than 15,000 products are already available on the site.
Our Online Metals shop in the USA has been open for business since 2007 and today offers around
65,000 products. The next steps in our digital transformation process will focus on the automation
of processes in warehousing, production and logistics and increasing integration with customers
and suppliers. Digital connectedness, data analysis, and real time data exchange open up whole
new possibilities for dialogue and flexible collaboration which will further strengthen customer ties
and create efficiency advantages for both sides.

63

Digital sales channels enhance our
offering and open up new
customer groups.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Adjusted EBIT lower year-on-year
On account of the very difficult market environment particularly in the 1st half, Materials Services’
adjusted EBIT was clearly lower year-on-year. Alongside strong competitive and price pressure, this
reflected windfall losses, which in the case of stainless steel continued into the 3rd quarter, and the
absence of earnings contributions from sold activities, which came to more than €40 million the
year before.
The Italian stainless steel plant AST delivered its first positive contribution to net income for the
year. The turnaround at AST, achieved despite high windfall losses, impressively documents the
effectiveness of the ongoing restructuring process.

Steel Europe
S T E E L E U R O PE I N F I G UR E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Order intake

million €

8,421

8,146

(3)

Net sales

million €

8,697

7,633

(12)

EBIT

million €

514

316

(39)

%

5.9

4.1

–

million €

492

315

(36)

%

5.7

4.1

–

27,601

27,559

0

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

The Steel Europe business area combines the Group’s flat carbon steel operations mainly in the
European market. Its high-quality flat products are supplied to customers in the auto industry and
other steel-using sectors requiring products and services that meet their high demands. Our
particular strength is our ability to develop custom solutions. We do this on the basis of our
profound knowledge of the business and therefore the needs of our customers, our technical knowhow gained through years of experience – and not least our ability to use the advantages of being
part of a strong group, from which our customers also profit. Alongside working with customers,
continuous quality management and extensive process improvement initiatives are integral parts of
our work.

With our profound knowledge of
the needs of our customers,
technical know-how, and the
advantage of being part of a
strong group, we develop custom
solutions.

Orders and sales lower year-on-year
The difficult market and competitive environment continued to weigh on the performance of Steel
Europe. Average selling prices remained inadequate. The fall in European spot market prices
persisted until the middle of the fiscal year, with a delayed impact on our deals. Although the
market subsequently picked up, our high share of long-term contracts meant we could not profit
fully from this before the end of the fiscal year.

64

Average selling prices failed to come
up to an adequate level .

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Order intake declined solely due to lower prices. The price pressure on new deals continued into
the 3rd quarter. By contrast order volumes climbed 6% to 11.8 million tons in the reporting year.
We registered a noticeable improvement in orders especially in the spring: The incipient recovery in
market prices caused many customers to build up stocks. In the final quarter of the fiscal year
order intake was down again – for seasonal reasons but also in part due to temporarily reduced
bookings due to production disturbances among other things following the fire at the hot-rolling
mill in Bochum.
Sales of Steel Europe were down significantly from the prior year. This mainly reflected the decline
in average net selling prices, but shipments too were 5% lower year-on-year at 11.2 million tons.
Overall and particularly in the 1st half of the fiscal year sales decreased for market reasons, but in
the 2nd half production-related cutbacks were the main cause. However, there was a small
increase in shipments to the auto industry as well as to the construction and appliance industries.
Shipments to other customer groups decreased.
At 12.0 million tons, crude steel production in the past fiscal year including supplies from
Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann was 3% lower year-on-year. To offset temporary supply
difficulties we purchased around 0.5 million tons of slabs from our Brazilian plant CSA.
Rolled steel production for customers was 7% lower at 11.1 million tons, mainly reflecting the
deliberate reduction of shipments in the first half of the reporting period. In addition in the second
half of the year production stoppages were necessary in some areas, particularly the hot rolling
operations, due to planned repairs and a higher incidence of outages which in isolated cases also
created problems with supplies to our customers.

EBIT lower – “one steel” launched
The Steel Europe business area reported significantly lower adjusted EBIT in the year under review.
The deterioration was mainly caused by lower volumes and prices. Temporarily lower raw material
costs did little to ease the situation. However, the extensive efficiency measures under “impact”
had a stabilizing effect and also contributed to an earnings recovery in the course of the reporting
year. In addition we initiated the “one steel” strategic program in the reporting year. The aim of the
program is to secure our long-term competitiveness, a task which is all the more important in the
currently difficult climate. Under the program all strategic initiatives are bundled together and
managed centrally. We want to become Europe’s leading steel company in all relevant markets and
sectors and continually earn more than our cost of capital. Important levers are a stronger market
and customer orientation, further efficiency gains in production, optimization of the product range
towards high-margin grades, accelerated development and delivery of innovations, and clear
performance improvements in the supply chain. The measures developed and approved will be
implemented step by step in the coming years.

65

one steel
New strategic program “one steel”
aims to secure our competitiveness.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Steel Americas
S T E E L A ME R I C A S I N F I G U R E S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Order intake

million €

1,723

1,525

(11)

Net sales

million €

1,773

1,489

(16)

EBIT

million €

(147)

(22)

85

%

(8.3)

(1.5)

–

million €

(138)

(33)

76

%

(7.8)

(2.2)

–

3,725

3,847

3

EBIT margin
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT margin
Employees (Sept. 30)

The Steel Americas business area supplies in particular the US and Brazilian markets with highquality slabs from its steel mill in Brazil (CSA). A long-term slab supply contract with ArcelorMittal
reliably secures a minimum 40% capacity utilization for our plant for several years.

Long-term slab supply contract
secures minimum utilization rate over
several years.

Order intake and sales lower year-on-year due to lower prices
In the reporting year the market and competitive environment for Steel Americas remained difficult;
particularly in the 1st half of the fiscal year selling prices were unsatisfactory. Order intake was
significantly lower year-on-year. However, order volumes were 8% higher on average over the year,
totaling 4.2 million tons. Order intake improved significantly in the 2nd half of the fiscal year,
mainly as a result of the positive trend in market prices.
Sales were down sharply from a year earlier mainly as a result of lower selling prices. Shipments
on the other hand were 14% higher year-on-year at 4.4 million tons. Crude steel production came
to 4.3 million tons, up 7% from the year before. This was mainly attributable to improved
production stability, particularly in the 2nd half of the fiscal year. We are making good and steady
progress with the establishment of further long-term customer relationships; above all in the
Brazilian home market we succeeded in gaining market share.

EBIT higher
Adjusted EBIT of the Steel Americas business area was significantly higher year-on-year, but still
slightly negative overall: Clear progress with improved volumes and extensive efficiency measures,
a market recovery in the 2nd half, and positive exchange rate effects on input tax credits at CSA
partly offset the severe price and margin pressure in the 1st half of the fiscal year. In the 2nd half
earnings were already clearly positive; over the full year positive cash flow was generated. We
made significant progress with the implementation of the efficiency program UP (“Ultimate
Performance”). This is already having a positive effect on slab costs and will continue to improve
cost efficiency at CSA over the long term.

66

Positive earnings in 2nd half; full-year
cash flow positive.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Corporate at thyssenkrupp AG
The Group is managed centrally by thyssenkrupp AG as corporate headquarters. Corporate
comprises the Group’s head office including administration for the regions, asset management for
the Group’s real estate, and the global shared services activities.
Adjusted EBIT at Corporate was €(497) million in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year, €83 million down
from the year before. This was mainly the result of project costs in connection with our digital
initiatives for the standardization of the IT infrastructure and data and process harmonization. EBIT
was €(542) million and included special items of altogether €45 million.
To further optimize control structures and increase the transparency of cost reporting for our
headquarters and other activities at Corporate, from the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year we will be dividing
Corporate into four areas: Corporate Headquarters (“CorpHQ”), Regions, Service Units and Special
Units.
CorpHQ mainly comprises the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG and the corporate functions. It
will also include the management of the Groupwide transformation programs for the harmonization
of the IT infrastructure (“unite”), data and processes (“daproh”), and HR processes (“HR
Transformations”).
Regions will include our regional headquarters (“RHQs”) in North and South America, Greater
China, India, the Asia/Pacific region, and the Middle East & Africa region, as well as the regional
offices and Group representative offices.
Service Units are mainly Global Shared Services, Regional Services Germany and Corporate
Services.
Special Units will include asset management for the Group’s real estate, cross-business area
technology projects as well as non-operating entities needed for example for Group financing.

67

From fiscal 2016 / 2017 we will divide
Corporate into four areas.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Results of operations and financial position
The next two sections contain an analysis of the earnings situation based on the statement of
income and an analysis of the statement of financial position. The subsequent analysis of the
financial situation includes information on financing. It is followed by a discussion of the statement
of cash flows including a description of key investment areas in the business areas.

Analysis of the statement of income
Net sales were down year-on-year in fiscal 2015 / 2016. The decline was mainly due to lower sales
in the materials businesses as a result of strong import and price pressure on the materials
markets. Cost of sales decreased at a higher rate than sales, primarily as a result of lower
materials expense. Gross margin improved to 17%.
The reduction in selling expenses was mainly due to lower freight expense and lower impairment
losses on trade accounts receivable. The rise in general and administrative expenses mainly
reflected higher personnel expenses. Other expenses were lower, mainly due to the absence of the
increase in a provision recognized in the prior year in connection with a settlement with the nonoperating US company The Budd Company, which is currently in liquidation. The improvement in
other gains and losses was mainly due to the currency translation of refund entitlements in
connection with non-income taxes.
Finance income was down, mainly reflecting lower exchange rate gains in connection with finance
transactions, lower income from accrued interest for refund entitlements in connection with nonincome taxes, and the absence of a gain from the divestment of a shareholding in a logistics
company in the Steel Europe business area recognized in the prior year. The overall reduction in
finance expenses resulted mainly from lower expense from derivatives in connection with financing
as well as declining interest expense for financial debt; this was partly offset by increased currency
losses from finance transactions.
Tax expense as in the prior year was impacted by the non-recognition of deferred tax assets for
current losses at individual Group companies. After taking into account income taxes, income from
continuing operations was at the prior-year level.

68

Cost of sales decreased at a higher
rate than sales; gross margin
increased to 17%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

CO N S O L I DATE D S TATE ME NT O F I N CO ME
million €, earnings per share in €

Net sales
Cost of sales
Gross margin
Research and development cost

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

42,778

39,263

(35,904)

(32,637)

6,874

6,625

(330)

(373)

Selling expenses

(2,996)

(2,865)

General and administrative expenses

(2,284)

(2,415)

284

234

Other expenses

(371)

(114)

Other gains/(losses), net

(223)

112

954

1,204

Other income

Income/(loss) from operations
Income from companies accounted for using the equity method

33

46

Finance income

1,320

1,030

Finance expense

(1,811)

(1,627)

(458)

(552)

Financial income/(expense), net
Income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes

496

652

(217)

(391)

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)

279

261

Discontinued operations (net of tax)

(11)

0

Net income/(loss)

268

261

Income tax (expense)/income

Thereof:
thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders

309

296

Non-controlling interest

(41)

(35)

268

261

Net income/(loss)
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on
Income/(loss) from continuing operations
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

0.57

0.52

Net income/(loss) (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

0.55

0.52

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

69

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Analysis of the statement of financial position
Total assets were lower than at September 30, 2015.
The increase in non-current assets mainly reflected higher deferred taxes particularly in connection
with the losses from the remeasurement of pensions and similar obligations recognized in other
comprehensive income. Additions to property, plant and equipment above the level of depreciation
and an increase in refund entitlements in connection with non-income taxes recognized in other
non-financial assets also contributed to the increase. The decrease in investment property resulted
mainly from reclassifications to assets held for sale following the initiation of the disposal of
German property classified as non-operating real estate in the 3rd fiscal quarter.
The significant decrease in current assets mainly reflected price- and volume-related decreases in
the inventories of the materials businesses and lower cash and cash equivalents, primarily due to
the repayment of financial debt.
Total equity at September 30, 2016 was down from a year earlier. This was mainly due to
€891 million losses (after taxes) recognized in other comprehensive income as a result of the
remeasurement of pensions and similar obligations due to the fall in the discount rate as well as
€120 million dividend payments. This was partly offset by the €261 million net income for the
reporting year and €74 million currency translation gains recognized in other comprehensive
income. The equity ratio fell to 7.4%.
The increase in non-current liabilities was mainly due to provisions for pensions and similar
obligations as a result of the aforementioned remeasurement. The decline in non-current other
provisions mainly related to reclassifications to other financial liabilities as a result of the settlement
of claims against thyssenkrupp companies in connection with the non-operating US company The
Budd Company currently in liquidation. Further offsetting effects resulted from the reduction in
non-current financial debt. The reclassification to current financial debt of a bond due in February
2017 with a total volume of €1,250 million was partly offset by the issuing of a bond with a total
volume of €850 million in March 2016 as well as the placement of loan notes in the 1st half of the
reporting year.

70

Total equity was lower, mainly due to
the remeasurement of pensions and
similar obligations due to the fall in
the discount rate.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The decrease in current liabilities related in particular to current non-financial liabilities, mainly as a
result of significantly lower liabilities in connection with construction contracts. Current financial
debt was also lower; the increase from the aforementioned reclassification from non-current
financial debt was more than offset by the repayment of a €1,000 million bond in February 2016
and repayments of loan notes. There were further decreases, mainly in other financial liabilities,
from derivatives accounting and amounts utilized in other current provisions in connection with
restructuring measures. This was partly offset by increases in trade accounts payable relating
mainly to the elevator and components businesses.

Consolidated statement of financial position
ASSETS
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Intangible assets

4,529

4,570

Property, plant and equipment

8,728

8,872

Investment property

239

66

Investments accounted for using the equity method

303

284

Other financial assets
Other non-financial assets
Deferred tax assets
Total non-current assets

47

44

343

445

2,031

2,322

16,220

16,604

Inventories

6,945

6,341

Trade accounts receivable

5,118

5,003

Other financial assets

319

407

Other non-financial assets

2,397

2,376

Current income tax assets

160

172

4,535

4,105

Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

0

65

Total current assets

19,474

18,468

Total assets

35,694

35,072

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

71

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Capital stock

1,449

1,449

Additional paid-in capital

5,434

5,434

(4,123)

(5,255)

Retained earnings
Cumulative other comprehensive income

422

474

3,182

2,102

125

507

Total equity

3,307

2,609

Accrued pension and similar obligations

7,654

8,754

Provisions for other employee benefits

339

373

Other provisions

906

589

Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Non-controlling interest

Deferred tax liabilities

53

33

6,385

6,157

Other financial liabilities

2

221

Other non-financial liabilities

5

6

Total non-current liabilities

15,344

16,134

362

408

1,066

963

Financial debt

Provisions for current employee benefits
Other provisions
Current income tax liabilities

241

279

1,570

1,455

Trade accounts payable

4,985

5,119

Other financial liabilities

1,226

975

Other non-financial liabilities

7,593

7,130

17,043

16,329

Financial debt

Total current liabilities
Total liabilities

32,387

32,463

Total equity and liabilities

35,694

35,072

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

Financing
Principles and aims of financial management
The financing of the Group is handled centrally by thyssenkrupp AG. It is based on a multi-year
financial planning system and a monthly rolling liquidity planning system covering a planning
period of up to a year. The cash inflows from our operating activities are our main source of
liquidity. Our cash management systems allow Group companies to use surplus funds of other
units to cover their liquidity requirements. This reduces the volume of external financing and thus
interest expense. External financing requirements are covered using money and equity market
instruments such as bonds, loan notes or commercial papers. We also make use of committed
credit facilities in various currencies and with various terms, as well as selected off-balance
financing instruments such as factoring programs and operating leases. Information on the
available credit facilities is provided in Note 17.

72

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Central financing enables us to act as a single entity on the capital markets. This strengthens our
negotiating position vis-à-vis banks and other market players and makes it easier for us to raise or
invest capital on the best possible terms and conditions.

Net financial debt and available liquidity
Net financial debt is calculated as the difference between cash and cash equivalents shown in the
statement of financial position plus current other financial assets available for sale, and noncurrent and current financial debt. The corresponding assets and liabilities of the disposal groups
are also taken into account.
The net financial debt of the full Group at September 30, 2016 stood at €3,500 million, only slightly
higher than the level at September 30, 2015 (€3,414 million). Taking into account cash, cash
equivalents, committed undrawn credit lines and the balanced maturity structure, thyssenkrupp is
solidly financed.
At the balance sheet date the Group’s available liquidity came to €8.0 billion, consisting of
€4.1 billion cash and cash equivalents and €3.9 billion committed undrawn credit lines. Additional
financing possibilities were available to us under a commercial paper program with a limit of
€1.5 billion. Under the program commercial papers can be issued with a term of up to 364 days
depending on investor demand. At September 30, 2016 we had not made use of the program.

€8.0 billion
The Group’s available liquidity
amounted to €8.0 billion.

The available liquidity offers enough scope to cover debt maturities. The gross financial debt
repayable in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year amounts to €1.5 billion.
The financing and liquidity of the Group were secured at all times in the reporting year.
thyssenkrupp AG has agreements with banks which contain certain conditions in the event that the
gearing ratio (net financial debt to equity) in the consolidated financial statements exceeds an
applicable limit at the closing date (September 30). The applicable limit lies in a range from 150%
to 200% and depends on the discount rate used to calculate thyssenkrupp’s pension obligations in
Germany. At September 30, 2016 the applicable gearing limit for thyssenkrupp AG based on these
agreements was 185%.
In addition, CSA has concluded a development loan with BNDES (carrying value €310 million at
September 30, 2016). BNDES agreed to an amendment of the gearing covenant at September 30,
2016, as a result of which the gearing ratio limit is in a range from 150% to 185%.
At the balance sheet date the gearing ratio was 134.2% and therefore below the agreed limit in all
cases.

73

134.2%
The gearing ratio was 134.2%.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Financing measures
Bond and loan notes issued – In March 2016 thyssenkrupp AG issued a bond with a total volume of

€850 million, a maturity of five years and a coupon of 2.75% p.a. under its €10 billion debt
issuance program. With the transaction we made use of the good market environment; as a result
we were able to extend the maturity profile of our financial debt and strengthen the capital market
share in our financing mix.
In addition, thyssenkrupp AG issued a €100 million loan note in December 2015 with a maturity of
three years and an interest rate of 0.931% p.a. as well as a €150 million loan note in March 2016
with a maturity of five years and an interest rate of 1.75% p.a.
Syndicated credit line extended – In March 2016 thyssenkrupp prematurely extended its €2.0 billion
syndicated credit line to March 2021.

Rating
We have been rated by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s since 2001 and by Fitch since 2003. In
February 2016 Moody’s downgraded our rating to Ba2 with stable outlook. All our ratings are thus
currently below investment grade with a stable outlook.

R AT I N G
Long-term rating

Short-term rating

BB

B

stable

Moody’s

Ba2

Not Prime

stable

Fitch

BB+

B

stable

Standard & Poor’s

Outlook

Analysis of the statement of cash flows
The amounts taken into account in the statement of cash flows correspond to the item “Cash and
cash equivalents” as reported in the statement of financial position.

Operating cash flows
In the reporting year net cash inflow from operating activities was slightly higher than a year earlier.
This was mainly due to the improved net income before depreciation and deferred taxes.

Cash flows from investing activities
At €1,387 million capital spending in the reporting year was higher than a year earlier
(€1,235 million or €1,335 million excluding cash acquired in connection with the increase in
Elevator Technology’s stake in Marohn Elevator and the first-time consolidation of thyssenkrupp
Uhde Chlorine Engineers at Industrial Solutions). Capital spending increased at all the capital
goods businesses; overall spending by the materials activities was level with the prior year. The
share of the capital goods businesses in total investment therefore increased further and now
stands at 50%.

74

Capital allocation improved further, the
share of the capital goods businesses
in the investment mix was
strengthened further.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

I N V E S T M E N T S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

392

488

24

Elevator Technology

89

135

52

Industrial Solutions

22

75

236

Materials Services

115

137

19

Steel Europe

458

400

(13)

Steel Americas

86

110

27

Corporate

76

45

(41)

million €

Components Technology

Consolidation
Total investments

(3)

(5)

–

1,235

1,387

12

Components Technology – Investments in the Chassis business unit focused mainly on building

production capacities for electric steering systems, in particular in China and Mexico, and on a new
plant in Mexico for active and passive damper systems. In the Powertrain business unit
investments were made to expand capacities for cylinder head modules in China, Europe and
Mexico (for the US market). A new combined plant for electric steering systems and cylinder head
modules is being built in Hungary. Selective investments were made in the industrial components
business to expand slewing ring production, focusing on rotor bearings and large diameter rings
for multi-megawatt wind turbines in Germany and China.
Elevator Technology – At Elevator Technology we are currently implementing an extensive growth

strategy and invested further in the international expansion of our service network and production
sites. Details of the growth strategy can be found in the section “Business Area review”.
Industrial Solutions – Our Process Technologies business unit added to its technology portfolio by

acquiring an oxygen depolarized cathode technology in its electrolysis business. At Resource
Technologies we invested in measuring equipment to improve our service business. This business
also expanded its technology portfolio to strengthen its market position in standard machinery and
equipment for mining. System Engineering invested in growth and further internationalization in its
forming dies business. Marine Systems focused on the continuing modernization of its Kiel
shipyard.
Materials Services – In addition to the acquisition of a steel service center in Hungary and the full
acquisition of a steel service center in Spain, investments focused mainly on the expansion and
modernization of warehousing and service activities worldwide. Further spending related to
modernization and maintenance at AST.
Steel Europe – One important investment decision related to the construction of a new ladle furnace
at BOF meltshop 2 in Duisburg. This new furnace will make it possible to produce particularly highquality grades and thus help further focus our portfolio on premium products, in particular highstrength steels for the automotive industry. The project launched in September 2016.
Modernization measures in the reporting year included work on the sinter line; new burner
technology also appreciably improves the line’s energy efficiency. Extensive upgrades were also
carried out on three lines to strengthen our tinplate production site thyssenkrupp Rasselstein in
Andernach. Further substantial amounts were spent on modernizing the IT infrastructure. Steel

75

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Europe invests continuously in the maintenance of its plants and further improving environmental
protection.
Steel Americas – Capital expenditures at our Brazilian steel mill focused on further improving

environmental performance and further technical optimization.
Corporate – Our Asset Management unit consolidates property investments for the entire Group. For

example our Elevator Technology business area is currently building a test and development tower
for elevators in Rottweil in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. There was also further IT
spending in the reporting year, for example for standardizing the IT infrastructure, data and process
harmonization and the central purchase of software licenses.
Capital spending in the reporting year resulted in a net cash outflow of €1,196 million. This yearon-year increase was mainly due to the absence of the proceeds from the sale of the VDM group
and the service activities of the RIP group at Materials Services recognized in the prior year as well
as the divestment of a shareholding in a logistics company at Steel Europe. This was partly offset
by cash inflows in connection with the disposal initiated in the reporting year of German property
classified as non-operating real estate.

Free cash flow
R E CO N C I LI ATI O N TO F R E E C A S H F L O W B E F O R E M & A

€198 million

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change

Operating cash flows (consolidated statement of cash flows)

1,300

1,387

87

Cash flows from investing activities
(consolidated statement of cash flows)

(638)

(1,196)

(558)

662

191

(470)

(547)

6

553

115

198

83

million €

Free cash flow (FCF)
–/+ Cash inflow/cash outflow resulting from material
M & A transactions
Free cash flow before M & A (FCF before M & A)

In the reporting year we again generated positive free cash flow, although it was down from the
prior year mainly due to the lower cash inflows from disposals. Free cash flow before M & A, i.e.
operating cash flows excluding cash inflows or outflows from major portfolio measures, was also
positive again and was higher year-on-year. Impacts from low order intake and the reduced order
backlog at Industrial Solutions, in particular at Process Technologies and Marine Systems, were
more than offset by positive cash flows from all other business areas.

Cash flows from financing activities
Financing activities resulted in a net cash outflow. This was mainly due to net repayment of
financial debt, compared with net proceeds in the prior year. The lower cash outflow from other
financing activities mainly reflects reduced expenditures for currency and cross-currency swaps in
connection with Group financing.

76

Free cash flow before M & A again
positive at €198 million.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

CO N S O L I D AT E D S TAT E M E N T O F C A S H F L O W S
million €

Net income/(loss)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

268

261

Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to operating cash flows:
Discontinued operations (net of tax)

11

0

Deferred income taxes, net

(110)

83

Depreciation, amortization and impairment of non-current assets

1,397

1,259

Reversals of impairment losses of non-current assets

(3)

(8)

Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method, net of dividends received

(33)

(46)

(Gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets

(58)

(23)

– Inventories

311

625

– Trade accounts receivable

636

74

(138)

(119)

– Other provisions

77

(55)

– Trade accounts payable

36

146

(1,083)

(811)

1,311

1,387

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures and other non-cash changes

– Accrued pension and similar obligations

- Other assets/liabilities not related to investing or financing activities
Operating cash flows – continuing operations
Operating cash flows – discontinued operations
Operating cash flows – total

(11)

0

1,300

1,387

Purchase of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets

(2)

(8)

Expenditures for acquisitions of consolidated companies net of cash acquired

45

(17)

(1,150)

(1,216)

(128)

(146)

97

1

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (inclusive of advance payments) and investment property
Capital expenditures for intangible assets (inclusive of advance payments)
Proceeds from disposals of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets
Proceeds from disposals of previously consolidated companies net of cash disposed

400

9

Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and investment property

100

180

Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations

0

2

(638)

(1,196)

0

0

Cash flows from investing activities – total

(638)

(1,196)

Proceeds from issuance of bonds

1,350

850

Repayments of bonds

(750)

(1,000)

Proceeds from liabilities to financial institutions

2,855

972

Repayments of liabilities to financial institutions

(3,074)

(1,140)

Proceeds from/(repayments on) loan notes and other loans

58

(142)

Increase/(decrease) in bills of exchange

4

(4)

(Increase)/decrease in current securities

1

(3)

(62)

(85)

Payment of thyssenkrupp AG dividend
Proceeds from non-controlling interest to equity
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest
Expenditures for acquisitions of shares of already consolidated companies
Other financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations

15

0

(63)

(35)

(1)

(6)

(411)

(67)

(78)

(658)

0

0

(78)

(658)

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – total

584

(467)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – total

(89)

37

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – total

4,040

4,535

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – total

4,535

4,105

Cash flows from financing activities – total

Additional information regarding cash flows from interest, dividends and income taxes which are included in operating cash flows of continuing operations:
Interest received
Interest paid

122

89

(464)

(432)

Dividends received

116

61

Income taxes paid

(274)

(324)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

77

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Assets not recognized and off-balance financing instruments
In addition to the assets recognized on the balance sheet, the Group also uses non-recognized
assets. These are mainly leased or rented assets (operating leases). More details on this can be
found under Note 21. Our off-balance financing instruments also include factoring programs. More
details can be found under Note 10. Should financing instruments of this kind no longer be
available in the future, we have adequate available credit lines. This also applies to the nonrecourse factoring of receivables, which the Group sold in connection with ordinary business
activities in the amount of €1.6 billion at the closing date; in the prior year the amount was
€1.5 billion.

78

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Annual financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG
thyssenkrupp AG is the parent company of the thyssenkrupp Group. The Executive Board of
thyssenkrupp AG is responsible for the management of the Company and the Group. This includes
above all defining corporate strategy and allocating resources as well as executive development
and financial management. The annual financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG were prepared
according to the rules of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the management report is combined
with the management report on the Group. The parent-company financial statements are used to
calculate unappropriated income and thus the amount of the possible dividend payment.

Course of business, future development and risk position
Course of business 2015 / 2016
The business performance and position of thyssenkrupp AG is mainly determined by the business
performance and success of the Group. We report on this in detail in the sections “Group review”,
“Business area review”, and “Results of operations and financial position”.

Expected development 2015 / 2016 with material opportunities and risks
The expected development of thyssenkrupp AG in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year also depends mainly
on the development of the Group as a whole and its opportunity and risk position. This is the
subject of the forecast, opportunity and risk report of the Group. To this extent the information
provided there on the expected development and risk position of the Group also applies to the
future development and risk position of thyssenkrupp AG.
As parent company of the Group, thyssenkrupp AG receives income in particular from its equity
investments. Net income from investments comprises profits and losses transferred from domestic
subsidiaries and dividends distributed by foreign subsidiaries. Accordingly, the positive
expectations for the Group’s business performance in 2016 / 2017 should also be reflected in the
income of thyssenkrupp AG. Overall we expect an unappropriated profit at thyssenkrupp AG in
2016 / 2017 that will allow our shareholders to share appropriately in the earnings of the Group.

Results of operations
thyssenkrupp AG reported net income of €161 million in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year, compared with
a net loss of €122 million a year earlier.
Net income from investments increased by €967 million to €855 million.
Income from profit and loss transfer agreements was up by €411 million to €694 million. In
addition, expenses from loss transfers decreased by €551 million to €84 million. After a loss of
€284 million in the prior year, thyssenkrupp Technologies Beteiligungen GmbH recorded positive
earnings of €240 million. After a loss transfer of €165 million in the last fiscal year, thyssenkrupp
Materials Services GmbH transferred a profit of €60 million. Thyssen Stahl GmbH increased its
income by €115 million to €323 million.
In addition, a total of €244 million income from investments resulted in particular from dividend
payments of thyssenkrupp Nederland Holding B.V.

79

For 2016 / 2017 we expect an
unappropriated profit that will allow
our shareholders to participate
appropriately in the earnings of the
Group.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

The €601 million decreased in other operating income was mainly due to €739 million write-ups on
shares in affiliated companies. In fiscal 2015 / 2016 amounts charged on in accordance with the
corporate design, company naming and trademark policy for the corporate mark, as well as usage
fees for Group licenses and other intra-Group service charges resulted in other operating income of
€392 million (prior year: €242 million).
In the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year there were €40 million write-downs on financial assets relating to the
shares of thyssenkrupp UK Plc.
Compared with a year earlier, general administrative expenses increased by €34 million to
€667 million. This was mainly due to expenses for IT consultancy (€45 million higher) and higher
salary expenses (€43 million higher). This was partly offset by a €36 million decrease in expenses
for post-retirement benefits, in particular due to lower allocations to pension provisions compared
with a year earlier.
Other operating expenses include in particular €73 million internal waivers of receivables from
thyssenkrupp Presta Aktiengesellschaft.
Income from ordinary activities came to €168 million (prior year: €(157) million).
Income taxes include income from previous years as well as taxes in the reporting period. Under a
recognition option for an excess of deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities, deferred taxes
are not included in tax expense.
After income taxes, net income was €161 million (prior year: net loss of €122 million).

Financial position
Total assets decrease year-on-year by €1,404 million to €37,364 million. At September 30, 2016
fixed assets as a percentage of total assets were 1 percentage point higher than a year earlier at 69%.
Fixed assets fell by €717 million to €25,598 million. Shares in affiliated companies were
€677 million lower at €22,110 million. The reductions were mainly due to the €659 million release
of additional paid-in capital at Thyssen Stahl GmbH. A €40 million impairment charge was taken on
the shares of thyssenkrupp UK Plc. The acquisition of €20 million shares in thyssenkrupp Rothe
Erde GmbH resulted in an addition to shares in affiliated companies.
Receivables and liabilities from/to affiliated companies are significant items in the balance sheet of
thyssenkrupp AG. They reflect the central importance of thyssenkrupp AG in the Group’s cash
management system.

80

€161 million
net income

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

At September 30, 2016 receivables from affiliated companies were up by €89 million from the prior
year to €8,968 million. The increase related mainly to other receivables from profit transfer
agreements (€411 million). This was partly offset by a €321 million reduction in intercompany
account balances.
thyssenkrupp AG bears liability from the internal transfer of pension obligations. The
indemnification right created by transfer of responsibility for meeting the obligations recognized
under miscellaneous assets decreased by €247 million in the past fiscal year to €346 million. The
decrease was mainly due to internal retransfers from thyssenkrupp Regional Services Germany
GmbH to thyssenkrupp AG. Correspondingly this was recognized under pension obligations.
At September 30, 2016 cash in hand and cash at banks was €538 million lower year-on-year at
€2,345 million.
Total equity increased by €76 million to €5,843 million at September 30, 2016. This change was
due to the net income of €161 million and the dividend payment of €85 million. The equity ratio
therefore rose to 16% (prior year: 15%).
The €21 million reduction in pension provisions was mainly due to payments (€24 million) and the
change in the aforementioned internally transferred pension obligations (€38 million). The
€21 million additions and the €21 million accrued interest offset each other. In other provisions, the
provision for share-based compensation increased by €20 million and the provision for outstanding
invoices by €28 million.
In March 2016 a bond with a total volume of €850 million was issued under the €10 billion debt
issuance program with a maturity of five years and a coupon of 2.75% p.a. In December 2015 a
€100 million loan note was issued with a maturity of three years and a coupon of 0.931% p.a., and
in March 2016 a €150 million loan note with a maturity of five years and a coupon of 1.75% p.a.
Liabilities to affiliated companies are mainly deposits by subsidiaries in the Group’s central financial
clearing system. Liabilities to affiliated companies were €2,189 million lower year-on-year at
€23,019 million. This was mainly due to a €960 million loan repayment, a €654 million reduction
in intercompany liabilities as well as lower liabilities from loss transfers. More information on the
financial position of thyssenkrupp AG is contained in the Notes to the parent-company financial
statements.

81

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Report on the economic position

Unappropriated income and proposal for the appropriation of net income
The legal basis for the distribution of a dividend is the unappropriated income of thyssenkrupp AG
calculated in accordance with HGB. The annual financial statements show unappropriated income
of €1,427 million. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board propose to the Annual General
Meeting that the unappropriated income for the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year in the amount of
€1,427 million be used as follows: Distribution of a dividend of €0.15 per eligible share and the
remaining amount to be carried forward.

Statement of financial position of thyssenkrupp AG
ASSETS
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

54

54

Fixed assets
Purchased intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial assets

370

341

25,891

25,203

26,315

25,598

Operating assets
Receivables and other assets

9,525

9,375

Cash on hand and cash at banks

2,883

2,345

12,408

11,720

Prepaid expenses and deferred charges

45

46

38,768

37,364

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Capital stock

1,449

1,449

Additional paid-in capital

1,473

1,473

Other retained earnings

1,494

1,494

Unappropriated net income

1,351

1,427

5,767

5,843

1,129

1,107

213

240

1,342

1,347

5,450

6,300

Total assets

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S
million €

Total equity

Provisions
Accrued pension and similar obligations
Other provisions

Liabilities
Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutes
Liabilities to affiliated companies
Other liabilities

Deferred income
Total equity and liabilities

82

471

375

25,208

23,019

528

477

31,657

30,171

2

3

38,768

37,364

€1,427 million
unappropriated income

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

S TAT E M E N T O F I N CO ME
million €

Year ended

Year ended

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Net income from investments

(112)

855

Other operating income

1,091

490

Write-downs of financial assets and securities classed as operating assets
General administrative costs
Other operating expense

(21)

(41)

(633)

(667)

(76)

(120)

Net interest

(406)

(349)

Income from ordinary activities

(157)

168

Income taxes
Net income / loss

35

(7)

(122)

161

Profit carried forward

1,473

1,266

Unappropriated net income

1,351

1,427

Technology and innovations
Innovation strategy
When it comes to innovation thyssenkrupp takes a systematic approach: We work together closely
within the Group across sector and technology boundaries, optimizing and standardizing basic
innovation and manufacturing processes. In this way we make targeted use of our combined
strength as a diversified industrial group.
The driving force behind our innovations is our global research and development (R&D) network
with more than 3,500 employees at around 100 sites. In addition we cooperate with external
partners such as universities, research institutes and other industrial enterprises. Our innovative
capabilities are reflected in the roughly 2,000 industrial property rights we registered in the
reporting period. thyssenkrupp’s patent portfolio now contains some 18,000 patents and utility
models. Spending on research and development came to €778 million in the reporting year, an
increase of 6% year-on-year. Adjusted R&D intensity – the share of R&D costs in sales excluding
trading and distribution – was 2.6%, in line with our goal of a sustainable adjusted R&D intensity of
around 2.5%.
In the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year we capitalized development costs of €23 million, compared with
€18 million in 2014 / 2015. The share of capitalized costs in the overall research and development
costs – the capitalization ratio – increased slightly from 5.2% a year ago to 5.8%.

83

Cooperation for the technologies
of the future.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

R E SE A R C H AN D DE V E L O PM E N T
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

330

373

13
(20)

Research and development costs
Amortization of capitalized development costs

55

44

Order-related development costs

350

361

3

Total expenditure on research and development

735

778

6

Key development areas
The long-term horizon for our research and development work is set by our innovation foresight
process, which we use to anticipate future customer and market requirements. Innovation foresight
is an established and reliable method of studying the future, which we use to develop scenarios for
the coming decades.
The “thyssenkrupp Garage” was created to allow new solutions to be developed quickly. This
format makes targeted use of innovation methods outside the standard R&D channels and involves
early exchanges with customers, end users and other external experts. Working in a start-up
atmosphere, people from various areas of the Group combine their interdisciplinary expertise to
create new solutions, product ideas and business models. The most promising approaches from
the “thyssenkrupp Garage” are then added to the Group’s innovation agenda and developed further.
We manage the various phases of the product lifecycle, from initial idea to after-sales service to
end of product life, via our product lifecycle management (PLM) process. Our innovation work is
focused mainly on smart energy (technologies for the energy transition), sustainable mobility,
resource-efficient processes, intelligent manufacturing and cross-sector innovation.

Smart energy/technologies for the energy transition
Based on our years of experience in chlor-alkali electrolysis, we have further developed and
optimized the water electrolysis process to produce hydrogen cost-efficiently using renewable
energies. In parallel with this we have further optimized the performance of redox flow storage
systems: As part of a project funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and
Energy, a new technology is being developed which will significantly reduce the cost of producing
redox flow batteries.

Sustainable mobility
We work closely with OEMs on new vehicle concepts, focusing on high-tech chassis components –
primarily electric power-assisted steering (EPS) systems and active and passive dampers. By
further developing these systems we are helping enhance the safety and comfort of automated
driving. Based on our EPS systems we are also working on steer-by-wire solutions; steering
systems with no continuous mechanical links allow completely new steering and vehicle concepts.

84

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Innovation

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

Under an e-mobility project we are working on the production technology for new, lower-cost
batteries with very high storage capacities: The aim is to roughly double the current energy density
of around 250 watt-hours per liter of battery volume at costs of approximately €200/kWh. These
improvements are based on a new battery design featuring a large-area sandwich structure. We
are collaborating on this project, in which we are responsible for the development of equipment and
production technology, with the Fraunhofer Institute for Ceramic Technologies and Systems and the
engineering company IAV. The project is being funded by the German state of Saxony and the
European Regional Development Fund.

Resource-efficient processes
Our new biomechanical cleaning process uses bacteria to remove toxic substances from coke plant
wastewater. After a further treatment step, the water is so clean that it can be processed into
drinking water. For this we grow special bacterial cultures that can handle even high concentrations
of harmful substances. Previously, the wastewater had to be diluted in a complex process before it
could be treated by bacteria. The coke plant at the Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann steel mill in
Duisburg uses the new process to clean up to 30 m³ of wastewater per hour. Using this new
application the steel mill has increased its wastewater cleaning capacity by over a third.
In collaboration with the Technical University of Berlin we are developing a new process to produce
ammonium hydrogen carbonate from coke plant gases. This material is used by the chemical
industry for fertilizers and the production of foam materials. A corresponding pilot plant in Duisburg
is the first of its kind worldwide.

Intelligent manufacturing
By collecting and processing large volumes of data we aim to generate additional business,
improve production processes and further optimize the servicing and repair of equipment in our
own plants and at customers. One example for the use of so-called big data analytics is the
reduction of defective parts in steering column production by analyzing production data using
specially developed statistical programs. A further big data application already in successful use is
MAX, a concept to provide predictive maintenance for elevators by systematically analyzing
operating data (cf. “Elevator Technology” in the section “Business area review” under the “Report
on the economic position”).
Digitization is also changing the entire value chain and the business model of our material
distribution operations: Warehousing and logistics processes are increasingly automated, and we
are more strongly interconnected with our customers and suppliers. Online distribution platforms,
data analysis and the connected exchange of information open up new possibilities for dialogue
and flexible cooperation in real time.

85

Big data pilot projects launched in all
business areas.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Technology and innovations

In our elevator service operations we are now using HoloLens technology from Microsoft. HoloLens
is a special headset that allows “mixed reality”, helping service technicians work faster and more
reliably. On callouts HoloLens provides remote access to all technical information on the elevator
and also expert guidance via webcam. Initial tests show that with HoloLens service calls can be
completed significantly faster.
Additive manufacturing is an intelligent technology with great potential. In this technique, also
known as 3D printing, the entire development process from initial draft to final product is carried
out digitally. It allows geometries and functions to be realized which would not be possible using
conventional manufacturing methods. thyssenkrupp has formed an interdisciplinary project group
to develop additive manufacturing further and has already filed several patents for 3D printed parts.
A TechCenter for additive manufacturing is currently being established.

Cross-sector innovation
The collaborative project Carbon2Chem initiated by thyssenkrupp has been allocated more than
60 million euros in funding by Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education and Research. 16 further
partners from the areas of basic and applied research and various sectors of industry are involved
in the project. The aim of Carbon2Chem is to convert process gases from steel production –
including the CO2 they contain – into base chemicals. The greenhouse gas would then no longer be
discharged into the atmosphere. The energy required for the conversion process is to come from
renewable sources. Carbon2Chem is characterized by broad-based, cross-sector cooperation,
creating a new network of steel production, electricity generation and chemical production.
We are working with the European steel producers ArcelorMittal and Tata Steel on a collaborative
R&D project to develop a common European quality tracking standard. Quality tracking allows
customers taking delivery of steel coils to be supplied digitally with information on material quality
over the entire length of the coil. Customers such as automotive OEMs and suppliers are informed
about the exact position of any defects.

86

Carbon2Chem converts process gases
into useful products.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Environment, climate and energy

Environment, climate and energy
thyssenkrupp attaches great importance to the topics of environmental protection, climate change
and energy efficiency – from supply chain to internal processes to customers. With our solutions
we want to help meet rising demand for goods and services in a better way. Environmental
protection is therefore a core element of our corporate strategy.

Systematic management processes defined
At our more than 2,000 plant, service and office sites around the world we work systematically to
continuously improve environmental and climate protection and energy efficiency. These issues
also play an important part in our innovation processes and purchasing activities (see also
“Technology and innovations” and “Purchasing”). Our efforts are confirmed by external
assessments: In the CDP climate protection ranking thyssenkrupp achieved the highest score (A)
and is listed as a global leader in climate protection.

Climate protection: CDP includes
thyssenkrupp in its global “A list”.

Our environmental management system is based on an active exchange of experience, clear
allocation of responsibilities and systematic internal monitoring and control processes. In the
reporting year we spent over €474 million on environmental protection (down 2% from the prior
year) and invested a further €76 million in anti-pollution equipment such as filters and oil
separators (down 12% from the prior year). Our aim is for all our relevant activities around the
world to have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental management system and an ISO 50001
energy management system by the 2019 / 2020 fiscal year. In the reporting year we made
significant progress, in particular in the area of energy management. Coverage of energy-relevant
activities by ISO 50001 rose from 25% to 53%. As a result roughly 2 / 3 of thyssenkrupp’s energy
consumption is covered by ISO 50001. Coverage of environment-relevant activities by ISO 14001
remained at the same high level of 77%, equating to roughly 57% of the total workforce.

Continuous improvements in energy efficiency
With a worldwide energy consumption of around 100 terawatt hours (TWh), maximizing energy
efficiency makes good business sense for thyssenkrupp. With systematic energy management we
help conserve resources and lower energy costs.
The Groupwide Energy Efficiency Program (GEEP) is aimed at achieving sustainable efficiency gains
of 3.5 TWh by fiscal 2019 / 2020. Since the program launched in fiscal 2013 / 2014 we have
already achieved gains of 2.75 TWh through site-related projects (+ 0.55 TWh versus prior year)
such as improved utilization of waste heat, reduction of standby times, and replacement of plant
components. The efficiency gains achieved enable us to avoid almost 1 million tons of CO2
emissions per year.
Further information on environment, climate and energy can be found in the “Opportunity and risk
report” and on our website.

87

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Sustainability >
Environment > Environmental
protection

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Purchasing

Purchasing
As a diversified industrial group we purchase a wide variety of products, product groups and
services. Our goal is not just to achieve an optimized price/quality ratio for the goods and services
we buy; we also design our own products from the outset to allow necessary components to be
procured as cost-efficiently as possible.
Almost half our purchasing volume is for commodities such as raw materials or materials for our
distribution businesses. The other half is used for technological products and services. We expect
this to increase in the current fiscal year.

Materials expense
Materials expense includes the Group’s total spending on products and services and fell by 12%
year-on-year to €23.5 billion. At the same time materials expense as a percentage of Group sales
decreased slightly from 63% to 60%. Depending on business model, the percentages of the
business areas ranged between 36% at Elevator Technology and 82% at Materials Services. The
following table shows the materials expense for each business area:

Materials expense fell from
€26.9 billion in fiscal 2014 / 2015 to
€23.5 billion in the reporting year.

M AT E R I A L S E X P E N SE BY B U S I N E S S AR E A
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Components Technology

4,224

4,186

(1)

Elevator Technology

2,631

2,682

2

Industrial Solutions

3,950

3,341

(15)

Materials Services

million €

(12)%

11,791

9,750

(17)

Steel Europe

5,301

4,403

(17)

Steel Americas

1,159

990

(15)

Corporate/ consolidation

(2,207)

(1,853)

16

Total materials expense

26,849

23,498

(12)

Our global purchasing organization once again secured the supply of materials to our plants in the
reporting year. More information is provided in the “Opportunity and risk report” under
“Procurement risks”.

Materials expense of the
business areas
as % of sales 2015 / 2016
82
61

58

58

66

36

1

2

3

4

5

6

1 Components Technology

61%

2 Elevator Technology

36%

Corporate initiative “synergize+”

3 Industrial Solutions

58%

With “synergize+”, the corporate initiative to reduce materials costs, we have established a
consistent purchasing organization across all businesses, functions and regions, enabling us to
manage our global purchasing volumes strategically.

4 Materials Services

82%

5 Steel Europe

58%

6 Steel Americas

66%

88

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Purchasing

As in prior years, “synergize+” was once again responsible for around half the total EBIT effects
generated under the corporate program “impact” in fiscal 2015 / 2016. We expect contributions of
a similar magnitude in the coming years.
A key component of “synergize+” is strategic cluster management, which involves consolidating
the Group’s purchasing volumes across businesses, regions and functions. We also employ stateof-the art procurement tools such as online sourcing and online auctions and make increasing use
of the possibilities offered by the Asian procurement markets. To ensure not only cost efficiency but
also high quality we liaise closely with our local procurement experts.
Increasingly we are supplementing these commercial levers with technical levers, such as product
standardization and optimization, i.e. also modifying our own products so as to reduce the cost of
procuring starting materials. These activities are combined in the “value chain engineering”
initiative, which aims to intensify and expand the systematic use of advanced technical methods
and tools – in collaboration with cross-function purchasing partners within the Group. This will
enable us to leverage further earnings potential. The projects currently underway cover a broad
range of business requirements and material groups. Methods extend from classic value analysis,
optimization of existing products and innovative tools to support product development and
innovation to joint developments with customers and the digitization of procurement processes and
supply chains.
The next step will involve supply market intelligence, in which our suppliers and procurement
markets will be further analyzed in depth, in particular with regard to cost structures.
The combined strength of the Group and our growing internal and external networks will continue to
deliver great synergy potential in the future.

Sustainability in supplier management
In the future we will only work with suppliers who have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct and
comply with its requirements. In a risk-based approach, each year we audit at least 100 suppliers
to assess whether they reliably and consistently meet the defined principles and requirements of
this code. We focus these audits on suppliers from countries with higher procurement risks. In the
reporting year we conducted 185 supplier audits. As a general rule, improvement measures are
agreed during such audits, and we follow up to check that these measures have been implemented.
In this way we promote supplier development and minimize our risks.

89

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Procurement

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Employees

Employees
Employees in figures
On September 30, 2016 thyssenkrupp employed 156,487 people worldwide, 1,581 (1.0%) more
than a year earlier. The increase at Components Technology mainly reflects the growth in our
automotive components businesses in China, Mexico, Germany and Eastern Europe. By contrast,
employee numbers in the forging and machining operations in Brazil and the USA were adjusted in
line with the weak market situation. At Elevator Technology the net headcount remained virtually
unchanged: Increases in the service business of the Asia Pacific business unit were offset by
decreases in other business units, mainly due to the closure of the Canadian plant, the sale of the
Finnish company, the reduction in manufacturing activities in France and the decline in production
activities at Access Solutions. There was a slight rise in employee numbers at Industrial Solutions
and a disproportionate decrease in contractor employees. In the chemical plant engineering
business the order situation resulted in a significant reduction of both company and contractor
employees. By contrast, pleasing demand for production systems for the automotive industry led to
an increase in the number of employees. Despite minor acquisitions and reductions in contractor
staff in almost all countries, particularly Germany, the workforce at Materials Services decreased,
reflecting measures to adjust to the weak market environment. At Steel Europe the number of
employees remained virtually unchanged: Slight growth in the workforce in Germany, partly due to
the data and process harmonization initiative, and in Spain where a hot-dip coating line was taken
back into operation was offset by decreases in particular in connection with the restructuring of the
South American heavy plate activities. At Steel Americas the rise in headcount mainly reflected the
insourcing of maintenance work to optimize costs. The increase at Corporate resulted mainly from
the buildout of Global Shared Services (331 employees) and to a lesser extent from the ramp-up of
our patent management activities, the regional headquarters and our digital initiatives.

E M P L OY E E S BY B U S I N E S S A R E A
Sept. 30, 2014

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Change in %

Components Technology

28,941

29,627

30,751

4

Elevator Technology

50,282

51,335

51,426

0

Industrial Solutions

18,546

19,388

19,602

1

Materials Services

30,289

20,226

19,754

(2)

Steel Europe

0

27,858

27,601

27,559

Steel Americas

3,466

3,725

3,847

3

Corporate

2,990

3,004

3,548

18

162,372

154,906

156,487

1

Total employees

90

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Employees

HR strategy
Both our current and future employees are at the center of our HR strategy. Our aim is to attract the
best qualified people to thyssenkrupp, find a place for them in the Group that is a good fit for their
talents, support their further development and offer them attractive prospects. In this way we make
a valuable contribution to each of our locations and to the Group’s Strategic Way Forward as a
whole.
To make sure it remains efficient in the future, our HR organization is continuously improving its
processes. Under the “HR Transformation” project, thyssenkrupp is optimizing its structure and
way of working so as to better serve the needs of its 156,000 employees worldwide, improve
efficiency and make thyssenkrupp an attractive proposition to potential recruits. In the past fiscal
year we advanced step by step to towards these goals and achieved improvements in key areas.

Identifying and nurturing potential
To help others develop their potential to the full, we first need to identify talents in the company:
The regional talent pools established in 2015 allow a wide variety of talented colleagues to pursue
careers in the Group beyond regional and business unit boundaries. They enhance the visibility of
our talents and give them greater opportunities. Moreover, individual management members get to
meet more highly promising employees than ever before. We also have a Fast Track program to
help particularly talented colleagues from the early stages of their career. For this, in 2015
thyssenkrupp was honored with the HR Excellence Award bestowed by the Bundesverband der
Personalmanager (Federal Association of HR Managers) in conjunction with “HR Manager”,
Germany’s leading HR journal.
We promote not only talent but also diversity, because it is the diversity of our employees that
makes us successful. As part of our Diversity & Inclusion Management program, January saw the
launch of our LGBTI network (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex) under the patronage of
CHRO Oliver Burkhard. In March we organized the first ever thyssenkrupp Diversity Day as a clear
sign of our efforts to stamp out prejudice in the workplace. We made further good progress in our
quest to meet our self-imposed target of a 15% share of women in leadership positions by 2020: In
the past fiscal year the share of women in leadership positions rose by 6.4% to 10.9% (prior year:
10.2%). Further information on the implementation of the law on the equal participation of women
and men in leadership positions in the private and public sector can be found in the corporate
governance declaration.
Another sign of our conscious efforts to promote diversity is the “we.help” program launched in
September 2015 to integrate refugees into the German labor market. Under this program, in
September 2015 thyssenkrupp and the Group Works Council pledged to offer an additional 230
internships for refugees and to create 150 apprenticeship places. More than 200 internship and 40
apprenticeship contracts have already been signed. thyssenkrupp is part of the nationwide German
initiative “Wir zusammen” (We together).

91

honored
The company received the 2015 HR
Excellence Award for its Fast Track
career program. Talents are supported
by personal coaches and mentors
from top management positions.

380
Responsible: 380 internships and
apprenticeship places have been
created for refugees.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Employees

A D D I T I O N A L G R O U P H R I N D I C ATO R S
Prior-year ﬁgures in brackets

€8,942 million

15.1%

10.9%

(€8,536 million)

(14.9%)

(10.2%)

140
(137)

Personnel
expense

Share of women in
the workforce

Share of women in
management positions

Nationalities in
the Group

5.1%

3.1%

3.7

~ 40

(5.1%)

(3.2%)

(4.6)

Share of apprentices in the
workforce in Germany

Sickness
absence rate

Accidents
(per 1 million hours worked)

Languages in
the Group

E M P L OY E E S BY R E G I O N ( S E P T. 30)
Prior-year ﬁgures in brackets
Western Europe

20,967

German-speaking
area1)

Central and
Eastern Europe

(21,305)

4,329

North America

64,641

21,113

(4,035)

Commonwealth
of Independent
States
Greater
China

880
(929)

(63,511)
India

Middle East
& Africa

South America

1)

4,275

(13,529)

(3,812)

Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein

92

Asia / Pacific

4,128

6,432
(6,167)

12,818

16,904
(16,084)

(21,422)

(4,112)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Employees

Enabling top performance
The thyssenkrupp Academy offers employees and managers training at the very highest level. In
the ten years since its inception the Academy has carried out around 950 programs. It has evolved
from a place of learning for managers into a tool that drives the dynamic change process. It now
also supports employees from the business units and corporate functions with tailored learning and
development programs.
In fiscal 2015 / 2016 the Academy increased its sales by around 36% and expanded its range of
programs: In addition to established courses for project management and purchasing experts,
there are now separate additional campuses with online seminars, libraries etc. for Strategy,
Markets & Development and Human Resources. More campuses for other functions will follow in
2017. “Regional Learning Germany” has been introduced to provide additional support to our
various locations, focusing on practical training tailored to the personal requirements of our
employees.

qualified
The thyssenkrupp Academy has been
offering top level training for ten
years.

Last year in Germany 971 young people once again started their careers at thyssenkrupp under
our dual system of vocational training. The apprentices are taught by 149 full-time trainers in 30
apprentice workshops and 47 works schools. At 5.1 percent the apprentice training rate is at the
good level of the prior year.
Anyone who wants to improve their performance needs feedback. This is also true for companies
and managers. That’s why in 2014 we carried out the first ever Groupwide employee survey and
collected responses from over 105,000 people. In the follow-up process to this survey, some 4,800
teams developed over 12,000 measures to improve work processes and cooperation at local level,
and most of these measures have now been implemented. In September 2016 we staged the
second Groupwide employee survey, once again giving around 150,000 people the opportunity to
provide feedback on management, cooperation and health. The results will show us where we now
stand and where we still need to improve. The follow-up process for the second Groupwide
employee survey will commence in January 2017.

12,000
Together: Over 12,000
improvement measures were
developed on the basis of the
2014 employee survey.

A dependable partner
For us, the safety and health of our employees take top priority. Through Groupwide campaigns
aimed at promoting a health and safety culture and KPI-based management, we again made very
good progress in the area of occupational safety and health in the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year. For
example, global targets were set with regard to early indicators of the need for health promotion
measures, and in Germany goals were agreed to systematically reduce mental stress at the
workplace. A further step on the path to a change in culture was taken with the “World Day for
Safety and Health at Work” on April 28, 2016. Under the motto “we move the world”, some 60,000
employees from 69 countries took part in a pedometer challenge and other activities to promote
health and more exercise at work. We also made very good progress in the area of occupational
safety. Accident frequency fell by 20% in the reporting period to 3.7 accidents per 1 million hours
worked. The aim is to reduce the number of accidents per 1 million hours worked by at least 10% a
year up to 2020. As an incentive for our operations, the “we care Award” was presented for the
first time in the reporting period to winners from South Korea, India and Germany.

93

3.7
Safe and healthy: We reduced the
number of accidents per 1 million
hours worked to 3.7.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Compliance

For us, dependability also means creating fair working conditions. With an International Framework
Agreement on minimum labor standards we expressly recognize the ILO’s Core Labor Standards,
which aim to guarantee not only the safety of employees at work but also humane working
conditions, at all our sites. In January 2016 we introduced an IT-based reporting system, which our
own employees and third parties can use to provide information on possible violations of these
standards via a secure internet connection. Employer and employee representatives then act jointly
on this information in an agreed process.

Further development of HR work
In fiscal 2015 / 2016 we made good progress on modernizing and standardizing post-retirement
benefits. For example, the so-called “Flexplan” to be introduced from January 1, 2017 will
completely restructure pension provision for skilled workers and managers in Germany. For the first
time the obligations will be funded on a period-related basis: In principle this means there will be
no further increase in pension provisions. The new “Flexplan” includes employer-financed
contributions which are invested directly on the capital market; employees will be able to see how
much they are worth at any time via an online pension account. Employee contributions will in
general be subsidized by the employer and can be made in line with provision or financing
requirements. Benefits can be paid out as a lump sum or in installments.

Compliance
thyssenkrupp has a broad understanding of compliance: Observance of the law and internal
regulations is a must for us, and part of our corporate culture. Compliance creates the framework
for our business actions and serves to safeguard our long-term business success. In the
2015 / 2016 fiscal year, compliance work focused on the continuing implementation of our
Compliance 2020 strategy.

Compliance firmly embedded in our corporate culture
Compliance is a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable business success. Compliance is a
central component of good corporate governance. Our compliance strategy is aimed at creating a
fully embedded integrity and compliance culture. In concrete terms our goal is to instill the entire
thyssenkrupp Group with a value culture in which reliability, honesty, credibility and integrity are the
cornerstones of our actions. This value culture must be jointly supported and lived by all employees.

94

For more information on compliance at
thyssenkrupp, visit thyssenkrupp.com

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Compliance

This applies above all to our managers, who play a particularly important role as compliance
ambassadors: They act as role models – not just for our employees but also for our suppliers,
customers and other stakeholders. They generate awareness that our value culture is important
and right. Because to us compliance is more than just abiding by the law. Compliance is a question
of mindset. This includes our clear commitment that thyssenkrupp stands for fair and straight
business. We would rather sacrifice a contract than win it by breaking the law.

Clear commitment: We would
rather sacrifice a contract than win
it by breaking the law.

However, at the same time we want to support entrepreneurial risk-taking within a clearly defined
framework. Part of this means being willing to take calculable entrepreneurial risks, to make and
accept mistakes. However, violations of the law or internal rules are neither legally acceptable nor
compatible with our understanding of compliance. The following rules therefore apply
unequivocally:
■ We investigate all reports of legal violations and clear up the facts.
■ Employees who report possible legal violations in good faith enjoy special protection from unfair

treatment.
■ Any violations identified are stopped immediately.
■ Any violations identified are systematically and appropriately sanctioned as necessary.

Compliance 2020 strategy
The Compliance function established the Compliance 2020 strategy under an extensive project
back in the 2013 / 2014 fiscal year and is now continuously implementing it year by year in
accordance with its roadmap. The strategy’s main aim is to systematically embed compliance in
the Group. This is to be achieved through numerous measures, such as the further development of
our global training programs, the embedding of compliance in our business processes, and
targeted communications.
The Compliance function also performs the role of advisor, coordinator and consolidator in other
topic areas such as occupational safety and environmental protection to ensure uniform reporting
to the Executive Board. Substantive compliance responsibility in these areas remains with the
competent corporate functions and business areas. This ensures that compliance is understood in
accordance with the thyssenkrupp mission statement, an intensive exchange of knowledge takes
place between the Compliance function and those responsible for content, and increased synergies
are created particularly in the organization and also in processes and methods.

Compliance program at thyssenkrupp
Our compliance program was consistently applied and implemented in the reporting year: The
compliance program focuses primarily on the areas antitrust law and corruption prevention, and
also includes money laundering prevention, data protection, and the Italian compliance law
231 / 01.
The program comprises the three elements “inform & advise”, “identify”, and “report & act”. It is
closely interlinked with risk management and with our internal control system. In this way we
ensure that compliance is an integral component of every single business process.

95

Antitrust law and corruption
prevention the focus of compliance
work at thyssenkrupp.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Compliance

■ “Inform & advise”: In the past year our compliance officers and regional compliance officers

once again trained and advised employees around the world on applicable statutory
requirements, internal Groupwide policies, and also looked at concrete individual cases. As in
previous years the Compliance function supported important business transactions, e.g. in
connection with major projects and M & A projects or the engagement of intermediaries. For
advice on all matters relating to compliance, employees can contact their compliance officers in
the business areas, regions, and at Corporate, or call our central hotline. In the reporting year
over 4,700 employees worldwide attended classroom courses on antitrust law and corruption
prevention. With almost 55,000 employees having successfully completed anticorruption
courses and almost 45,000 employees antitrust courses in the 3rd cycle of the e-learning
program as of the end of the previous reporting year, the 4th cycle was initiated in November
2015. Already over 100,000 courses have been completed in this cycle, which means 95% of
those registered have taken part in the program. In addition special e-learning programs are
offered on compliance in purchasing and on the Italian compliance law 231 / 01.
■ The compliance principles presented by the Group Executive Board in summer 2016 provide an

answer to the question often asked by our managers on how to fulfill their compliance
responsibility in practice in operating business. The principles offer a concrete guide to
integrating compliance requirements in our day-to-day work. Developed in close collaboration
between managers and the Compliance function, they are now being rolled out throughout the
organization with the help of discussion workshops. We are confident that this will help permeate
the message on a lasting basis in the interests of a positive corporate culture.

Culture

CO M P L I A N C E I S A Q U E S T I O N O F M I N D S E T – 7 P R I N C I P L E S :

1

I act with integrity and as a visible role model for my colleagues, employees,
customers and suppliers.

2

I promote an open and trustful compliance culture, which includes eﬀectively
communicating compliance topics.

Action

Role

3

I assume compliance responsibility for the business in my area.

4

I identify and mitigate the Compliance risks in my area and look deeply into
unusual transactions until any doubts have been eliminated.

5

I know the Compliance requirements and approval processes for my business
and implement them into the business processes of my organization.

6

I ensure that my employees receive regular compliance training and are aware
of speciﬁc compliance challenges in their daily work.

7

I interact with the compliance community in mutual trust and in a transparent
and proactive way.

96

Over 100,000 online courses on
antitrust law and corruption
prevention have been completed
since November 2015.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Subsequent events

■ “Identify”: This focuses on regularly reviewing critical business operations based on a risk-

oriented, structured audit process. Key elements in the identification of compliance risks are our
internal whistleblower system and the ombudsman. Alongside the options of directly contacting
a supervisor or the compliance department, these provide employees with additional channels
for reporting possible infringements of laws or policies without revealing their identity.
Accordingly in the reporting year proactive and event-driven audits and investigations were again
conducted by our compliance officers.
■ “Report & act”: As well as our regular reports to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee,

our intensive compliance reporting covers all levels of our organizational matrix: Executive Board
of thyssenkrupp AG, business area boards, Group company managements, and regional officers
and project managers with market responsibility. In the event of proven infringements, our “zero
tolerance” policy applies: Sanctions are systematically imposed on the employees concerned.

Compliance organization
Our Compliance function has the important job of acting as a strategic business partner, i.e. being
involved in relevant strategic decisions of the business areas from an early stage. This requires a
needs-based compliance organization and a comprehensive compliance program with clearly
allocated roles and responsibilities, effective, efficient and appropriately staffed program
management, and in particular structures and tasks based on the requirements of the Group.
At thyssenkrupp we have over 70 full-time compliance employees worldwide. They are supported
by a network of around 350 compliance managers. These are generally top executives of the
individual Group companies who ensure the compliance program is implemented at operating level
in their area of responsibility. Together they play a key role in permanently embedding compliance
in the Group and are available to employees seeking advice.

70
thyssenkrupp has over 70 full-time
compliance employees.

350
Around 350 compliance managers
promote compliance at work and act
as our mouthpiece in the business
units around the world.

Subsequent events
No reportable events occurred between the end of the reporting year (September 30, 2016) and
the date of authorization for issuance (November 15, 2016).

97

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Forecast, opportunity
and risk report
2016 / 2017 forecast
Overall assessment by the Executive Board
Overall we expect that further progress on our Strategic Way Forward will be reflected in our key
performance indicators in the 2016 / 2017 fiscal year. However, it must be kept in mind that the
economic climate is marked by great uncertainty and as a result sales and earnings in large parts
of our materials and components businesses may be subject to short-term fluctuations.
Uncertainties arise from geopolitical flashpoints and also concern in particular
■ the future political course of the USA and the extent of the expected weakening of the Chinese

economy as key factors for global growth and as important sales markets
■ the negative impacts of the Brexit referendum on economic growth in Europe and on exports to

Britain by our automotive customers
■ the volatility and amount of raw material prices as a key factor for our customers in plant

engineering in the award of major projects and as an important cost factor in our materials
businesses
■ the overcapacities in the global steel industry, the corresponding competitive and import
pressure on the European market, and the effectiveness of current and possible follow-up trade
measures.

Nevertheless on the whole we take a cautiously optimistic view of developments in the 2016 / 2017
fiscal year and expect a significant improvement in earnings and value added and slightly positive
free cash flow before M & A.
A key driver for meeting our targets in the current fiscal year will again be the efficiency measures
under “impact”: For 2016 / 2017 we once more aim to achieve EBIT effects of €850 million under
“impact”, which will counter the risks and market effects described above, create the basis for
profitable structural growth, and open up scope for necessary measures to make our IT
infrastructure and process landscape fit for purpose moving forward.

Key assumptions
The expected improvement in our key performance indicators is predicated on the assumption that
there will be no further escalation of the geopolitical crises and that the economic effects of the
future course of the USA, the weakening of growth in China and the impacts of the Brexit
referendum will remain manageable. For the current fiscal year we assume moderate growth in the
euro zone, a slight increase in economic momentum in the USA, slightly weaker growth in China,
and an improvement in the economies of many emerging countries.

98

€850 million
We aim to achieve EBIT effects of
€850 million again under “impact”.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

We expect only a slight rise in global demand for steel, with moderate low single-digit percent
growth in both Europe and the USA. Demand is expected to bottom out at a low level in Brazil, and
decline further in China. Import pressure on the European market will likely remain high. We
assume there will be no lasting dislocations on the raw materials markets, that the recent significant
price increases for coking coal will be passed onto the market, and that competition will remain
intense.
Against a background of high uncertainties, a very mixed regional picture, and generally slowing
momentum, global automotive output should increase again moderately. After very strong growth
in 2016, a further slight increase in output in China is forecast for 2017. Production in the NAFTA
region will probably also increase moderately; a steep decline in the USA will be offset by very
dynamic growth in Mexico. In Western Europe as a whole production is expected to stagnate – with
a decline in Germany and growth in France. After a further steep decline in 2016, auto production
in Brazil should stabilize at a low level in the forecast period.
The high order backlog with good earnings quality and high volume of service contracts at Elevator
Technology already ensure that planned sales are secured well into the new fiscal year.
The high order backlog at Industrial Solutions already secures a large part of planned sales. Our
workload in cement plant construction and production systems for the auto industry is very good.
However, some of our chemical plant, mining equipment and naval shipbuilding operations are
starting to experience capacity underutilization, the further course of which will depend to a great
extent on decisions by our customers to award major orders.
More information on expected future economic developments can be found in the section “Macro
and sector environment” in the report on the economic position.

2016 / 2017 forecast: Clear increase in earnings and value added with
slightly positive FCF before M & A
On a comparable basis the Group’s sales and all capital goods businesses are expected to grow at a
single-digit percentage rate.
The Group’s adjusted EBIT is expected to be around €1.7 billion (prior year: €1,469 million).
€850 million planned EBIT effects under “impact” will counter the market effects described above,
create the basis for profitable growth, and open up scope for necessary measures to secure the
future of the Group.
■ Capital goods businesses

– At Components Technology we expect an improvement in adjusted EBIT (prior year:
€335 million) from a slight increase in sales and margin (prior year: 4.9%) and also as a result
of further progress with the ramp-up of the new plants and efficiency programs.

99

€1.7 billion
Adjusted EBIT of around €1.7 billion.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

– At Elevator Technology we expect an improvement in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €860 million)
from slight sales growth and an increase in adjusted EBIT margin by 0.5 to 0.7 percentage
points from restructuring and efficiency measures (prior year: 11.5%).
– At Industrial Solutions the short-term focus is on reversing the trend in orders and cash flow.
We expect a decline in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €355 million) and based on the previous
year’s weak order intake a slight decline in sales. In plant construction we will safeguard
margin at the bottom end of the target range of 6% to 7% through extensive efficiency
measures. However, at Marine Systems we anticipate a temporary sharp decline in margins
and earnings with the expiry of high-earning projects and as a result of capacity
underutilization. Across the mix of project milestones to be billed, our overall margin will
therefore temporarily drop noticeably below the target range.
■ Materials businesses

– At Materials Services, in a slightly more favorable market environment we forecast a clear yearon-year increase in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €128 million) due to the absence of windfall
losses and in particular through progress with our restructuring and efficiency programs and
sales initiatives and the continued implementation of the business plan at AST.
– At Steel Europe we expect a slightly more favorable market environment with however
continued high import pressure and sharply increased raw material prices. As a result of
efficiency measures, differentiation initiatives and volume growth, we forecast a clear year-onyear increase in adjusted EBIT (prior year: €315 million).
– At Steel Americas, in a volatile price environment with rising raw material costs we expect
adjusted EBIT to come in level with the year before (prior year: €(33) million). Our efficiency
programs and operating progress will counter negative cost effects from a stronger Brazilian
real. Our long-term contract for the supply of slabs to the USA will secure a base workload in a
solid market environment; in addition we predict growth in shipments to the stabilizing Brazilian
market.
Our goal is to strengthen equity with clearly positive net income; for fiscal 2016 / 2017 despite
continued restructuring expenses we expect a significant year-on-year improvement (prior year:
€261 million).
The Group’s tkVA is therefore also expected to show a clear improvement (prior year: €(85) million).
Capital spending in the Group is expected to come to around €1.5 billion in the current fiscal year

(prior year: €1,387 million).
With an increase in net working capital at our materials businesses due to higher volumes and
prices, we expect slightly positive FCF before M & A overall (prior year: €198 million).
We will take into account the development of our key performance indicators and progress with the
implementation of the Strategic Way Forward – also keeping in mind economic justifiability – in our
dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting.

100

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Opportunity and risk report
Opportunities
Overall assessment by the Executive Board: thyssenkrupp with opportunities as a
diversified industrial group
For thyssenkrupp as a diversified industrial group, considerable opportunities arise from our
increasing focus on high-earning capital goods and service businesses, which are less volatile
and capital-intensive than our materials businesses. Advantages on the global markets are
arising for us and our customers as we concentrate on growth regions and sectors where we
make targeted use of our engineering expertise in the areas Mechanical, Plant and Materials.

Advantages created through the
targeted use of our engineering
expertise.

Significant opportunities also arise after implementation of planned “impact” measures and from
profitable growth in the business areas. At the same time major opportunities are opening up as a
result of targeted Groupwide initiatives and the consistent and systematic exploitation of the
Group’s economies of scope.

Definitions
thyssenkrupp defines opportunities as events or developments that enable us to exceed the
Group’s targets. Opportunity management encompasses all measures required for the systematic
and transparent management of opportunities. As it is integrated with the strategy, planning and
reporting processes, opportunity management is an important element of the strategic and valuebased management of the Group.

Opportunity management process
In the Strategic Dialogue, a structured, standardized Groupwide process at thyssenkrupp,
strategies including opportunities and risks arising from relevant market and technology trends are
systematically and comprehensively discussed each year in all business areas. Close integration of
opportunity management with the Strategic Dialogue means that opportunity management too is
based on a strategic medium- to long-term approach in some cases going far beyond the forecast
period.
Following on from the Strategic Dialogue, all business areas record opportunities and risks in
operational plans and monthly reports to facilitate assessment of the current earnings and liquidity
situation of the individual businesses. The graphic “Opportunity and risk reporting at thyssenkrupp”
in the “Risks” section of this report shows how these elements are integrated in the standard
reporting system.
In addition, we systematically analyze the regions in which the biggest opportunities exist for
thyssenkrupp. We continuously strengthen our regional structures and consolidate our crossbusiness regional activities in these regions.
The management of our opportunities is a task shared by all the Group’s decision makers – from
the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG to the business area management boards and
managements of the Group companies through to regional officers and project leaders with market
responsibility. Roles and responsibilities within the thyssenkrupp matrix organization are clearly
defined and demarcated. This structured involvement of numerous experts in decision-making

101

Opportunities are mainly of a strategic
nature due to close integration of
opportunity management with the
Strategic Dialogue.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

processes in the Group ensures that opportunities are reliably identified and systematically
exploited.

Strategic opportunities for the Group
The commitment and skills of our employees are the basis of our success. In a volatile environment
we continuously evolve our company in order to meet the global challenges of the future with
competitive solutions.
As well as optimizing the performance of each of our six business areas, we as a Group see
opportunities particularly in economies of scope created by the interplay between the business
areas, our regions, and the corporate functions. By pooling our expertise in Groupwide projects and
partnerships with selected research facilities and our customers, we take an integrated approach to
research and development. Major opportunities lie in developing new products on the basis of a
precise understanding of our customers’ needs so as to create real added value with an attractive
cost-benefit ratio for ourselves and our partners.

Opportunities created through
economies of scope.

thyssenkrupp stands for efficient processes and production methods with high product quality.
Many of our plants set global standards in terms of resource efficiency and environmental
protection. Advancing digitization means that previously separate value chains are increasingly
converging. New products, services and business models are surfacing which can be developed
best within a mix of different capabilities. thyssenkrupp with its diverse technologies has a
structural advantage here. Detailed information on current cross-cutting innovations is presented in
the section “Technology and innovations”.
We also see opportunities in the systematic and focused continuation of the corporate programs
launched in previous years. We continue to work on maximizing the efficiency of purchasing,
harmonizing our business processes, and standardizing our IT infrastructure. Our corporate
program “impact” remains the framework of our Strategic Way Forward and plays a major role –
together with business and theme-specific programs – in increasing the efficiency of the Group and
reducing costs across all business areas and corporate functions.
Details of our corporate strategy are contained in the section “Fundamental information about the
Group”
In our development projects we are also always guided by the Group’s financial scope. Unfavorable
economic conditions may result in delays or compromises in implementing existing opportunities.
More on this and on other risks can be found in the “Risks” section.

Operational opportunities of the business areas
Components Technology – Growing global demand for personal mobility and freight transportation is

a key factor for the Components Technology business area’s future business performance. Our
strategic program “pace” forms the framework for our strategic development. For us as an
engineering partner and component and module supplier to the auto industry, growth opportunities
are arising in these sectors worldwide. This applies particularly to the emerging markets in Asia
and the Americas. With new production sites we have positioned ourselves well in these markets
and see long-term growth opportunities here. Our products can support the global trend towards
efficient and environmentally friendly mobility. Challenging political targets worldwide to reduce
emissions in the auto sector add to this need. In the relevant areas of weight reduction and

102

All business areas have operational
opportunities in their specific business
models and markets.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

optimization of drive technologies, we offer our customers state-of-the-art solutions and are
working to extend our lead. At the same time we are developing new approaches and solutions for
innovative chassis systems. With this we want to participate in the trend towards increasingly
automated and autonomous vehicles; we see growth opportunities for this across all vehicle
classes.
In the wind industry there is growth potential for us in both the onshore and offshore sectors. Wind
power is one of the fastest growing renewable energy forms in the world. In Europe this trend is
supported by mandatory renewable energy targets set by the EU. The technological trend towards
ever bigger and more efficient turbines reinforces the need for high-performance components,
which we serve with our global production network. We are also profiting additionally from the
repowering of older turbines. First-generation turbines are gradually being replaced by more
modern and efficient units.
If the relevant markets and sectors (particularly the automotive markets), our efficiency or growth
programs or the ramp-up of our new plants perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key
performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Elevator Technology – Our Elevator Technology business area is one of the world’s leading suppliers
of people moving systems. The markets for elevators, escalators, moving walks, passenger
boarding bridges and stair and platform lifts offer attractive growth and profit opportunities in times
of increasing globalization and urbanization. With our broad product range, which includes
standard systems, custom solutions as well as full service and modernization packages, and our
local presence with more than 50,000 employees at over 900 locations, the business area can
open up new market and customer opportunities around the world.

Our innovative products and service solutions meet the highest technological and ecological
standards. In addition, our internal improvement program “elevate” and implementation of the
measures defined under the “impact” program will continuously improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of Elevator Technology.
If the global economy (particularly the construction sector) or our efficiency or growth programs
perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key performance indicators could be moderately
exceeded.
Industrial Solutions – If we continue to advance our innovative technologies, global growth

opportunities will open up for the Industrial Solutions business area despite the deterioration of the
investment climate due to the low oil price, increasingly fierce competition and political
uncertainties on the relevant markets. To increase competitiveness and exploit these growth
opportunities in our markets even more effectively, we are driving forward the regionalization of our
business. At the same time we are continuously standardizing and optimizing our project
management methods. All initiatives in this connection are brought together in our “planets”
transformation program.

103

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

In the marine sector, export projects provide a continuing bright market outlook for submarines
over the next few years. If our various campaigns for submarine programs around the world
succeed, this will benefit our order backlog and our workload.
If the relevant markets and sectors, the efficiency or growth programs, the investment activity of
our customers or contract execution perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key
performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Materials Services – Services are gaining further importance for Materials Services as producers

and processors focus more strongly on their core business. Higher service shares generally offer
Materials Services increased profitability in a volatile materials market. Opportunities for the
business area therefore arise from customer orientation, specific market and sector know-how, a
global network and broad expertise in project management.
Under its “focusX” program, Materials Services has defined extensive measures to further improve
the cost and earnings situation. A key element of this is the restructuring of materials warehousing
and service operations in Germany. Operational opportunities will derive from the consistent
implementation of the corresponding sales and service initiatives and the systematic digitization of
business processes through to the establishment and operation of online shops for various target
groups. In addition, the further implementation of the optimization programs for AST, part of
Materials Services since 2014, particularly with regard to production, purchasing, and sales will be
of major importance for the business area and open up the opportunity for us to better exploit
market potential.
If the relevant materials markets, the efficiency and restructuring programs or the sales initiatives
perform better than expected, the forecasts for our key performance indicators could be moderately
exceeded.
Steel Europe – The Steel Europe business area is focused on the market for premium flat carbon
steel, the performance of which mainly depends on economic activity in Europe.

Following a strong focus on efficiency measures in recent years, Steel Europe is now pursuing an
overall strategy aimed at strengthening its market and customer orientation. To this end the
business area board adopted the “one steel” strategic program which with twelve initiatives
addresses both market-facing and internal performance levers and contributory success factors.
“one steel” also includes the strengthening of Steel Europe’s technological capabilities through
targeted investment projects which will enable us on the market side to optimize our product and
customer portfolio. Overall therefore, even in a difficult market environment, Steel Europe is well
placed to participate sustainably in the major global trends of urbanization, increasing mobility, and
more efficient use of scarce resources – all of which require the use of intelligent steel products.

104

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

If the measures defined under “one steel” or the relevant steel market environment perform better
than expected and in particular import pressure weakens, the forecasts for our key performance
indicators could be moderately exceeded.
Steel Americas – We are confident that our now much more stable operational processes in the Steel

Americas business area will again be reflected in higher output volumes in the coming year and as
a result operational opportunities can be realized. With the establishment of a broad customer base,
the further optimization of sales activities should result in deeper penetration of the attractive
product and grade segments of the Brazilian and international slab markets. This will create further
profitability opportunities and support the step-by-step ramp-up of production towards design
capacity.
The “Ultimate Performance” program launched in the last fiscal year aimed at significantly
reducing production costs and enhancing production stability is being vigorously implemented at
CSA in Brazil in close coordination with the Group performance program “impact” and the Group’s
purchasing program “synergize+”, so the trend towards further improving operational performance
should continue in the coming year. In addition, positive effects are expected from stronger
technical cooperation with the Steel Europe business area.
If the relevant steel market environment (particularly hot rolled prices in the USA and global and
Brazilian slab prices) or the operational performance improvement perform better than expected,
the forecasts for our key performance indicators could be moderately exceeded.

Risks
Overall assessment by the Executive Board: Risks at thyssenkrupp further reduced,
existence of the Group secured
The Group’s risk profile continued to improve in the reporting year; for example we obtained the
operating license for our steel mill in Brazil from the Brazilian authorities, and with the takeover of
Vale’s minority shareholding in CSA we reduced complexity and risks and increased our room for
maneuver for the further development of CSA. Transparent and systematic risk management with
structured processes ensured risks in the Group were efficiently managed.
From the current perspective the Group’s risks are contained and there are no risks that threaten
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Definitions
thyssenkrupp defines risks as events or developments that reduce our ability to achieve the
Group’s goals. Risk management encompasses all measures involved in the systematic and
transparent management of risks. With its integral link to planning and reporting processes in
controlling, risk management is an important element of the value-based management of the

105

No risks that threaten the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Group and goes far beyond the early identification of risks required by law. Efficient, forwardlooking risk management therefore also serves the interests of capital providers and other
stakeholders.
We continuously enhance the Group’s risk management system by following the internationally
recognized COSO model and integrating it with the internal control system, with the internal control
system being the main risk management measure we use to reduce process-related risks. In
optimizing the systems, we promptly implement requirements and suggestions of the Executive
Board and Supervisory Board Audit Committee. Under our “Governance, Risk and Compliance
(GRC) Policy”, our risk management system methodology is embedded in the three lines of defense
model. Details can be found in the corporate governance report.

Continuous improvement of risk
management system embedded in the
GRC policy.

Standardized risk management processes ensure that the Executive Board and Supervisory Board
are informed promptly and in a structured way about the Group’s current risk situation. However,
despite comprehensive risk analysis, the occurrence of risks cannot be systematically ruled out.

Risk strategy and risk policy
In the GRC Policy thyssenkrupp has defined basic principles for corporate governance and risk
management. The Policy also describes the universally applicable risk policy principles in the Group
as a framework for meeting the requirements of proper, consistent and proactive risk management.
The principles are based on the thyssenkrupp Group mission statement and the strategic goals for
the various business models; they serve as guidelines for professional and responsible risk
management.

transparent
The culture change at thyssenkrupp
promotes transparent risk
management.

Our risk strategy is focused on securing the existence of the company and increasing the value of
the company sustainably. Business success requires opportunities to be recognized and associated
risks to be identified and evaluated. Opportunities should be optimally exploited and business risks
should be entered into consciously and responsibly and managed proactively to the extent that an
appropriate increase in value can be achieved. Risks threatening the Group’s ability to continue as
a going concern must be avoided.
The aims of risk management at thyssenkrupp are to increase risk awareness and establish a
value-based risk culture at all corporate levels. Risks and opportunities are analyzed transparently
and are systematically incorporated into business decisions.

Risk management process
thyssenkrupp has defined Groupwide risk management sub-processes: identify and report risks
early, assess risks consistently, control risks and develop measures, and monitor risks and track
implementation of measures. The efficient design of our various risk management instruments
ensures that the sub-processes are integrated in a continuous risk management loop and all risk
managers are involved appropriately in the process. We continually improve our methods and tools
to identify, assess, control and report risks.

106

standardized
Risk management throughout the
Group is based on standardized subprocesses and procedures.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

The organizational anchoring of Group risk management in operational and strategic controlling
facilitates active and holistic risk management integrated with planning and reporting processes.
Our risk management instruments are therefore focused on deviations in the key performance
indicators adjusted EBIT and free cash flow before M & A. The following graphic outlines our various
approaches:

O P P O R T U N I T Y A N D R I S K R E P O R T I N G AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

Risk scenarios

Risk inventory

Provisions
for risks

Identiﬁcation and
assessment of
opportunities and
risks not included in
current estimation

Identiﬁcation and
assessment of
opportunities and
risks not included in
budget

Analysis of
concentration risks
based on deﬁned
common scenarios

Identiﬁcation,
assessment and
management
of risks in all
operating units
not included in
estimation and
budget planning

Analysis of main
provisions for
risks/measures
monitoring

Current
ﬁscal year

Following
ﬁscal year

Scenariodependent

Planning
period

Current
ﬁscal year

Monthly

Yearly

At least yearly

Twice yearly

Four times yearly

Goal/content

in budget

Time horizon

Risks

in estimation

Interval

Opportunities and risks

The Group’s standardized risk
management system is a combined
top-down/bottom-up process.

Standard reporting
Monthly
reporting

Budget
reporting

Risk and Internal Control Committee and Audit Committee
Interval
Four meetings yearly

The opportunities and risks not included in the monthly updated projections or in the budget are
part of standard business area reporting and make an important contribution to integrated
business management during the year and to corporate planning, in which we analyze bands for
the key performance indicators “Adjusted EBIT” and “Free cash flow before M & A” related to the
current and the subsequent fiscal year.
As part of the planning process and on an ad hoc basis we also analyze macroeconomic
concentration risks based on Groupwide risk scenarios taking into account centrally defined
interdependencies and risk premises. The risk scenarios mainly address slumps of major
economies and other exogenous shocks and their impacts on thyssenkrupp.
All Group companies worldwide use a standardized IT risk management application to prepare risk
maps. This ensures that earnings and cash risks influencing our key performance indicators are
recorded locally by the operational risk managers and reported through a series of approval and

107

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

aggregation processes via the business area management boards to the top level of the Group. In
the risk mapping process all consolidated Group entities are required to formulate risk
management measures for the individual risks identified and assessed in the three-year planning
period and systematically monitor their implementation. The assessment period used for the risk
map goes beyond the period covered by the forecast and provides complete transparency into the
local risk assessments. The regular bottom-up reporting and updating of risks also ensures that
risk awareness remains high throughout the Group.
Risks already recognized via balance sheet provisions are also the subject of standardized analyses
and risk reporting, ensuring systematic control of these risks too.
Ad hoc risks are communicated immediately to the risk management officers and are also
documented via the established reporting channels.

Roles and responsibilities
Risk management at thyssenkrupp is a combined top-down/bottom-up process. Binding system
standards are formulated top-down by the Group and apply to all operating entities. Responsibility
for measuring and controlling risks along the value chain lies with the functional managers in the
operating entities (bottom up).
The material Group risks are discussed and validated in meetings of the interdisciplinary Risk and
Internal Control Committee (RICC) held once every quarter and chaired by the CFO. At the same
time this forms the preparation for risk reporting to the Executive Board and Audit Committee. The
RICC meetings are attended by all Group officers responsible for governance, risk and compliance.
This interdisciplinary approach at committee level makes a key contribution to improving corporate
governance processes in the Group.
Group risk management has the task of continuously developing the risk management system
towards best practice standard and adapting it to new insights and requirements where needed. In
the Group policy on risk management we have formulated binding requirements for the risk
management process and defined the individual risk management tools on a standard Groupwide
basis.
In line with the roles defined in the Group’s matrix structure, the corporate functions and regions
play a supporting and coordinating role in the risk management process. The corporate functions
additionally act as risk category managers and in this role they are responsible for governance
specifications in their area of responsibility.
Employees responsible for risk management receive regular training on using the individual
instruments; we also use our Groupwide web-based IT risk management tool to provide targeted
information and training material.

108

The Risk and Internal Control
Committee meets four times a year to
discuss material Group risks.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Internal Auditing uses the information from the risk maps for its risk-oriented audit planning. The
internal audits structured on this basis contribute to the efficient monitoring of the risk
management system and deliver insights to increase the quality of the information and further
improve risk management in the Group.

R I S K M A N AG E M E N T M E A S U R E S AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

Prevent risks
Transfer risks
Gross risks

Reduce risks
Net risks

Risk assessment
Identified risks are assessed consistently according to the Group risk management rules as follows:
Based on probability of occurrence and impact on the key performance indicators in the planning
period we define risk classes according to the following graphic. The main individual risks in
defined risk categories, which we address in the following sections, are classified in accordance
with this system as high, medium or low:

R I S K C L A S S E S AT T H YS S E N K R U P P

Low risk

Medium risk

High risk

> 500 (high)

Impact in million €

≥ 250 to ≤ 500 (medium)

≥ 50 to < 250 (slight)

< 50 (very slight)
< 10 (very slight)

≥ 10 to < 25 (slight)

≥ 25 to ≤ 50 (medium)

> 50 (high)

Probability in %

Risk control
Risk presentation at thyssenkrupp is by the net method, i.e. taking into account existing risk control
measures that reduce gross risk.
We prevent risks by following the risk policy principles and not entering into transactions if they
infringe thyssenkrupp codes of conduct or policies. These mainly include the zero-tolerance
principle in compliance-related matters and the prohibition of speculation set out in the Group’s
Corporate Finance Policy.

109

Risk management methods are
coordinated.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

We transfer risks in cases where the financial scale of a risk can be minimized by central measures
such as insurance policies. More information is contained in the section below on risk transfer.
We reduce risks by taking appropriate targeted measures. More information on the individual
initiatives can be found in the section “Operational risks of the business areas”.

Insurable risks
As central service provider thyssenkrupp Risk and Insurance Services again handled the Groupwide
transfer of risks to insurers in the reporting year. The scope and design of insurance cover are
determined on the basis of structured risk assessments in which insurable risks at the Group
companies are identified, evaluated and reduced or eliminated through specific protection plans.
According to the Group’s risk-bearing ability we agree appropriate deductibles for individual classes
of insurance. A balanced portfolio reduces the risk of insurer insolvency.

The Group’s internal insurance
provider organizes the transfer of risk.

Binding standards are in place for all Group companies to keep risk prevention at a sustainable and
appropriately high level. These standards were developed by experts from all areas of the Group
under the leadership of thyssenkrupp Risk and Insurance Services and are updated on an ongoing
basis. Internal and external auditors regularly check compliance with these standards.

Internal control system in the Group accounting process
The internal control system comprises all the systematically defined controls and monitoring
activities aimed at ensuring the security and efficiency of business management, the reliability of
financial reporting, and compliance of all activities with laws and policies. The creation of an
effective and efficient internal control system is important for the control of process-related risks.
As part of the harmonization of business processes at thyssenkrupp we are also continuously
developing the internal control system throughout the Group using a standardized risk control
matrix and a structured self-assessment process.
Various monitoring measures in the accounting process help ensure that implemented controls
allow compliant financial reporting despite possible risks.
A standard, regularly updated Operating Instruction for the consolidated financial statements is
available to all employees concerned via an internal internet platform. For consolidation we use a
Group tool based on standard software. In this way we ensure consistent procedures and minimize
the risk of misstatements in the Group’s accounting and external reporting.
thyssenkrupp has clearly defined the sub-processes involved in financial reporting and assigned
clear responsibilities for them. An appropriate segregation of functions and application of the dualcontrol principle reduce the risk of fraudulent conduct.
Corporate Function Controlling, Accounting & Risk is responsible for the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements and issues binding instructions to the local units with regard to
content and timing. In this way we ensure consistent accounting practices throughout the Group
with minimum scope for discretion in connection with the recognition, measurement and reporting

110

Internal control system reduces
process-related risks.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

of assets and liabilities. Group-owned shared service centers support the local units in preparing
local financial statements. All employees involved in the accounting process undergo regular
training.
We perform regular central system backups on the IT systems used in the consolidation process in
order to avoid data losses and system failures. The security strategy also includes system controls,
manual spot checks by experienced employees, and custom authorizations and access controls.
Internal Auditing regularly checks the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management
systems and is therefore integrated in the overall process.
By means of these coordinated processes, systems and controls we ensure that the Group’s
accounting is reliable and complies with IFRS, German GAAP (HGB) and other relevant standards
and laws.

Macroeconomic risks
Economic risks exist when positive impetus is not forthcoming from the global economy and
markets of relevance for thyssenkrupp. After the UK’s vote to leave the EU (Brexit) and possibly
other EU-critical referendums, the option of withdrawal could gain support in other countries,
resulting in a serious crisis of confidence regarding the institutions of the EU and lower growth rates
in the European economies. The future political course of the USA, slower growth rates in China, a
prolonged recession in Brazil, unresolved debt crises in the euro zone or exogenous shocks such as
a further escalation of violence in crisis regions could have major effects on the global economy;
this would also affect thyssenkrupp. We continuously monitor the corresponding country-specific
conditions. In Groupwide risk scenarios we simulate the impacts on our business models to enable
us to take action and minimize risks at an early stage when necessary.
In the event of a severe exogenous shock the individual economic risks would be medium.
Our current economic assessment is presented in detail in the section “Macro and sector
environment”.

Financial risks
The central responsibilities of thyssenkrupp AG as parent company include coordinating and
managing finance requirements within the Group and securing the financial independence of the
company as a whole. To achieve this we optimize Group financing and limit the financial risks. The
individual risks identified in this risk category are presented below and are medium overall.
Default risk – We enter into financial instrument transactions in the financing area only with
counterparties which have a very high credit standing and/or are covered by a deposit guarantee
fund. Transactions are concluded only within specified counterparty risk limits. Outstanding
receivables and default risks in connection with supplies and services are constantly monitored by
the Group companies; in some cases they are additionally insured under commercial credit policies.
The credit standing of key account customers is monitored particularly closely.

111

Risk scenarios simulate the impacts of
economic risks and exogenous
shocks.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Liquidity risk – To secure the solvency and financial flexibility of the Group at all times, we maintain
long-term credit facilities and cash funds on the basis of a multi-year financial planning system and
a liquidity planning system on a rolling monthly basis. The cash pooling system and external
financings are concentrated mainly on thyssenkrupp AG and specific foreign companies. We use
the cash pooling system to allocate resources to Group companies internally according to
requirements.

thyssenkrupp AG has entered into agreements with banks which contain certain conditions in the
event that the ratio of net financial debt to equity (gearing) in the consolidated financial statements
exceeds a specified limit at the closing date (September 30). The applicable limit is within a range
of 150% to 200% and depends on the discount rate used to calculate the pension obligations of
thyssenkrupp in Germany. At September 30, 2016 the applicable gearing ratio limit for
thyssenkrupp AG was 185%. In addition CSA has taken out a development loan with BNDES
(carrying value €310 million at September 30, 2016). BNDES agreed to an amendment of the
gearing covenant at September 30, 2016, under which the gearing limit is within a range of 150%
to 185%. At the closing date the gearing ratio was 134.2%, 31 percentage points higher than a
year earlier, and therefore within the agreed limit in all cases. The increase in gearing was mainly
attributable to lower interest rates for the revaluation of pension obligations of thyssenkrupp in
Germany.
Market risk – Various measures are used to mitigate or eliminate the risk of fluctuations in the fair

values or future cash flows from financial instruments due to market changes. These mainly
include off-exchange traded foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps, interestrate/foreign currency swaps and commodity forward contracts with banks and commercial partners.
To hedge against commodity price risks we also use exchange-traded futures. The use of derivative
financial instruments is extensively monitored, with checks being carried out on the basis of
policies in the framework of regular reporting.
Currency risk – To contain the risks of our numerous payment flows in different currencies – in

particular in US dollars – we have developed Groupwide policies for foreign currency management.
All companies of the Group are required to hedge foreign currency positions at the time of their
inception; companies based in the euro zone hedge via our central clearing office. Translation risks
arising from the conversion of foreign currency positions are generally not hedged.
Interest rate risk – To cover our capital requirements we have procured funds on the international

money and capital markets in different currencies and with various maturities. The resulting
financial liabilities and our financial investments are partially exposed to risks from changing
interest rates. The task of central interest rate management is to control and optimize this risk of
changing interest rates. For this, regular interest rate risk analyses are therefore prepared, the
results of which feed into our risk management system.

112

Centrally controlled measures are
used to contain financial risks.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Risks associated with disposals, acquisitions and restructurings
Active portfolio management is one of the key pillars of our Strategic Way Forward. The disposal
and acquisition of businesses as well as restructurings within our existing businesses are
associated with risks. The risks identified in this category, which we classify in each case as low,
are monitored continuously and provisions are recognized where required.
In the reporting year thyssenkrupp acquired Vale’s minority interest in our South American steel
business CSA to streamline the ownership structure and simplify the extremely complex contract
situation at CSA. thyssenkrupp is now the sole owner of CSA and in a better position than
previously to strategically develop the steel mill in Rio de Janeiro. At the same time we settled
substantial reciprocal claims with the acquisition of Vale’s minority interest, significantly reducing
risks for our company.

Risks lowered by reducing complexity
of contract situation at CSA.

Procurement risks
To manufacture our high-quality products, we procure raw materials and other feedstocks as well
as energy and freight capacities. Depending on market situation, procurement prices can vary
considerably and impact on our cost structures. Also, suppliers may be lost, which might in turn
jeopardize our production and the fulfilment of contractual obligations towards our customers. The
individual risks identified in this category are low. We counteract these risks through marginsecuring measures and alternative procurement sources.
To hedge against raw material price swings, we also use derivative financial instruments, mainly
commodity forward transactions. The use of such instruments is subject to strict rules. Details of
these risk areas are provided in Note 22.
Risks related to rising energy prices are countered by structured energy procurement. We operate
sustainably and are working across the Group to save energy and recycle waste.
Further information on procurement risks can be found in the section “Operational risks of the
business areas”.

Production risks
In the event of unfavorable constellations and developments, our plants can be exposed to the risk
of business interruptions and property damage. In addition to the cost of repairing damage, there
is above all the risk that a business interruption might result in production losses and thus
jeopardize the fulfilment of our contractual obligations towards our customers. We counter these
risks through regular preventive maintenance and through modernization and investment in our
machinery and production facilities. In close consultation with our central service provider
thyssenkrupp Risk and Insurance Services we take out appropriate insurance and so transfer risks
to external service providers. The remaining financial risks in this category are classified as
medium.

113

We counter the risk of business
interruptions through regular
maintenance and investment in our
equipment to ensure we fulfill our
contractual obligations towards our
customers.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

In our production plants there are process-related risks that can lead to air and water pollution.
Furthermore, some of the Group’s real estate no longer used for operations is subject to risks from
past pollution and mining subsidence. To minimize risks thyssenkrupp invests continuously and
sustainably in environmental protection and scheduled remediation and maintains a close dialogue
with authorities, local communities and political representatives. We recognize adequate provisions
for past pollution.
Further details on production risks can be found in the section “Operational risks of the business
areas”.

Sales risks
The risks described in the section “Macroeconomic risks” may diminish our market prospects and
therefore lead to sales risks. In the event of sustained developments, we carry out market-oriented
adjustments or relocate capacities.
We counter sales risks resulting from dependence on individual markets and industries by focusing
systematically on the markets of the future. As a diversified industrial group with leading
engineering expertise, thyssenkrupp operates globally, maintains good, long-term customer
relationships, and pursues active strategic market and customer development. Our high degree of
diversification with multi-layered product and customer structures helps ensure that thyssenkrupp
remains largely independent of regional crises on sales markets. We therefore classify the sales
risks as low.
Further details on sales risks and on our professional receivables management system to counter
the risk of bad debt are provided in the section “Operational risks of the business areas”.

Order risks
The management of major contracts involving a high degree of complexity and long project lead
times is a core challenge in the Industrial Solutions business area. Cost overruns and/or delays in
individual project phases cannot be ruled out. Individual identified order risks are currently
classified as medium. To minimize these risks we continuously improve our management
instruments so that we are aware of current order status at all times and able to take projectrelated measures quickly if required.
Before entering into contracts we check the credit standing of our customers carefully. We deploy
experienced project managers for order execution. Through transparent monitoring of order status
we ensure that payments are made promptly according to order progress and payment defaults are
minimized.

Risks from trade restrictions
Due to the global nature of its business thyssenkrupp is exposed to possible risks stemming from
trade restrictions such as anti-dumping/anti-subsidy tariffs, export restrictions, special monitoring
measures, embargoes, far-reaching economic sanctions against certain countries, persons,
businesses and organizations, as well as other protectionist or politically motivated restraints.

114

Our management instruments help
minimize risks in the handling of major
contracts.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

These restrictions can not only impede our business activities in individual national markets;
violations could lead to severe penalties, sanctions, reputational damage and damage claims. We
therefore take strict care to comply with customs and export control regulations and other trade
restrictions.

Litigation risks
We define litigation risks as risks in connection with pending or imminent lawsuits or regulatory or
administrative court proceedings brought against thyssenkrupp. The thyssenkrupp Group uses a
software tool with which litigation risks are systematically identified, categorized, evaluated and
reported under the established risk management system to the Executive Board and the Audit
Committee on a quarterly basis. We carefully examine claims asserted by third parties for merit.
Legal disputes in and out of court are supported by in-house counsel and where necessary external
counsel.
Based on the applicable risk standards, current estimates indicate that there are no litigation risks
which could individually or cumulatively be classified as high. Cumulative litigation risks are
combined risks from lawsuits brought by numerous claimants and from regulatory proceedings
against thyssenkrupp which relate to the same matter and can be classified as a single litigation
risk. Information on further litigation risks for which we have recognized provisions or which are
classified as contingent liabilities is provided in Notes 16 and 21.

Compliance risks
We operate a strict compliance program focused on reducing the risk of antitrust and corruption
violations, because these offenses have enormous potential for damage, both financial and in
terms of reputation. For this reason compliance risks in general are classified as high.
In 2013 the public prosecutor’s office in Bremen launched an investigation into (former) employees
of Atlas Elektronik GmbH (Atlas) on suspicion of bribery of foreign officials and tax evasion in
connection with naval projects in various countries. Atlas is a joint company of thyssenkrupp and
Airbus. In this connection, the public prosecutor’s office has opened administrative proceedings
against Atlas as a legal person which could potentially serve as the basis for a company fine. The
Greek state prosecutors have also started investigations into Atlas and natural persons involved in
marine projects in Greece. In connection with these criminal proceedings, the Greek state is also
pursuing civil claims for compensation against Atlas. Atlas is cooperating fully with the authorities
and has initiated an internal investigation to clarify the matter in consultation with the Bremen
public prosecutor’s office. The ongoing official proceedings and the internal investigation are being
closely monitored by the owners.

Regulatory risks
New laws and other changes in the legal framework at national and international level could entail
risks for our business activities if they lead to higher costs or other disadvantages for thyssenkrupp
compared with our competitors directly or in respect of our value chain. Overall the regulatory risks
for thyssenkrupp are classified as high.

115

A strict compliance program is the
answer to the high potential for
damage from antitrust and corruption
violations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

As an energy-intensive industrial and services group, we face earnings risks on the global markets
if additional costs are imposed under energy- and climate-related rules which we are not able to
pass onto our customers, or only to a limited extent.
thyssenkrupp supports effective climate protection efforts and a sustainable energy transition in
which climate protection, security of supply, and competitiveness are equal priorities. We support
the relevant discussion processes on regulatory efforts through close working contacts with the
relevant institutions and also cooperate with industry associations to reduce possible risks such as
further rising energy costs.
Risks could occur for example in Germany as a result of the current evaluation of the treatment of
in-house electricity under the Renewable Energies Act (EEG). Regarding the EU emissions trading
system there is a significant long-term risk of higher costs for thyssenkrupp if the effective CO2
allowance costs rise sharply in the fourth trading period (from 2021), as politically desired in part.
The EU Commission’s current proposal suggests the burdens will increase significantly, though at
present it is not possible to estimate what final form the regulation will take.
At global level, international climate policy and the process to implement at national level the Paris
Agreement of the International Climate Conference in December 2015 could give rise to risks as
well as opportunities for our businesses. Corresponding activities to minimize risks are coordinated
at Group level and strengthened through global networks and the close involvement of
thyssenkrupp’s regional headquarters.
Further regulatory risks may ensue from changes to the tax framework over time. For example in
Brazil tax benefits granted at state level, from which CSA also profits, are currently being examined
by the constitutional court. Should the court cases result in the benefits being removed and/or
reduced, substantial back taxes plus additional costs in Brazil cannot be excluded.

Risks associated with information security
Our IT-based business processes are exposed to various risks associated with information security,
which we classify as medium. Human error, organizational or technical processes and/or security
vulnerabilities in information processing can create risks that threaten the confidentiality,
availability and integrity of information. For this reason we continually review our processes and
technologies. Systems are updated and processes modified immediately as necessary. The ITbased integration of our business processes is subject to the condition that the risks involved for
our Group companies and business partners are continuously minimized. This is all the more
important when entire value chains are transformed through advancing digitization.
In the past fiscal year the number of attacks by criminals and external services on the IT
infrastructure of major German companies increased further. In this connection we carried out
measures to further improve our information security management and security technologies. A
group of IT security experts which is continuously being increased supports the Group with the
early identification of risks. In addition, vulnerability analyses are carried out regularly with the

116

Risks for our business models could
result from national and international
regulations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

support of our IT security team and external experts to verify the security of the infrastructure and if
necessary increase protection.
Sensitizing our employees to the risks involved in handling business-related information is a very
important issue to us. In this connection we carry out communication campaigns and secure the
technical support required to safeguard confidentiality.
Together with the Group’s data protection officer, our experts ensure that personal data are
processed in accordance with the rules of the German Data Protection Act.
All these measures will allow us to continue to protect the Group’s business data as well as the
privacy of our business partners and employees, and to respond appropriately to potential new
risks.

Personnel risks
As a diversified industrial group with leading engineering expertise, thyssenkrupp aims to be
successful on a sustainable basis. For this we need dedicated and highly qualified employees and
managers in all business units. There is a risk of not being able to find key personnel to fill
vacancies or losing competent employees; we classify the individual personnel risks as medium.
thyssenkrupp positions itself as an attractive employer and promotes the long-term retention of
employees in the Group. This involves offering development programs, career prospects and
attractive incentive systems. We provide targeted support for our employees, inform interested
young people about career opportunities at thyssenkrupp from an early stage, and support
apprentices as they start work. We cooperate with key universities and establish contact with
students from an early stage to secure the young talent we need.

Risks associated with pension obligations
The fund assets used to cover pension liabilities are exposed to capital market risks. To minimize
these risks, the individual investment forms are selected and weighted on the basis of studies by
independent experts. The aim is to align the investments so that the pension obligations can be
permanently fulfilled with the current and future income from the investments.
In connection with the valuation of pensions, thyssenkrupp is exposed to the risk of falling interest
rates. Lower discount rates for pension obligations result in further increases in provisions for
pensions and weigh on equity.
Pension obligations are exposed to risks from increased life expectancies of beneficiaries and from
requirements to adjust pension amounts on a regular basis. In addition, payments to pension
funds may increase substantially in some countries in the future due to stricter statutory
requirements. In individual cases, the premature cancellation of a pension plan may necessitate an
additional allocation.

117

Falling interest rates may represent an
accounting risk in connection with the
valuation of pension obligations.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Overall we classify the risks associated with pension obligations as medium.

Operational risks of the business areas
Components Technology – The Components Technology business area is a global supplier of

automotive and industrial components and as such is dependent on the international economic
situation and exposed to various general risks in its different areas of business.
Components Technology is a leading player in the powertrain sector. This position could be
jeopardized by the increasing trend towards electrification.
For the core markets of the business area continued growth is expected in all product segments.
However, this is subject to major uncertainty. Components Technology is very well positioned in
China. Slowing momentum in China could cloud our market prospects. Furthermore slower growth
rates in the newly industrializing countries, economic crises in the emerging markets (Brazil) and
continuing high budget deficits in Western Europe and the USA could compromise our market
outlook. Implementation of protectionist measures currently under consideration in North America
could make the transfer of goods within the NAFTA region more difficult. This would impact our
production network in Mexico and the USA. To lessen the risk of dependency on individual markets
the business area is expanding its customer base, developing technical innovations, and further
strengthening its international presence.
In addition to the economic risks, further risks come from the consolidation process in the auto
components industry and the increasing price pressure, intensified by auto manufacturers’ cost
reduction programs.
A general risk in the wind energy industry lies in dependence on national funding systems. In
Germany uncertainties remain regarding grid connection and financing of further offshore projects.
We are countering this risk with new technologies and innovations to access new areas of
application. At the same time pressure on selling prices remains high as a result of intense
competition. We are countering this price pressure with optimizations and efficiency enhancements
under the corporate program “impact”.
On the procurement side there are risks that steeply rising raw material prices cannot be passed on
in full to customers or only with delays. The business area counters these risks by framing
contracts with customers accordingly.
Further general risks for the business area concern the impact of changes in exchange rate parities
on sales and earnings, both translation and transaction effects. In addition, risks from unplanned
budget overruns cannot be ruled out in association with ongoing technological innovations and
improvements. On top of this there are potential risks from unexpected yield and quality problems
and the associated warranty obligations. The business area uses extensive production and quality
assurance systems to avoid or limit such risks as far as possible

118

Slowing market growth harbors risks
for Components Technology.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Elevator Technology – The risk structure of Elevator Technology is mainly determined by two factors:

the different areas of business and the different regions in which the business area operates.
Global economic uncertainty carries further risk potential for Elevator Technology, mainly the risk of
bad debt and project delays. As an additional effect, competition could intensify on all markets and
increase price pressure. The business area counters these risks with professional project
management in association with extensive checks of customers’ credit standing as well as
customer retention strategies, high service quality, efficiency programs and not least innovative
and sustainable product solutions.
The service and modernization business is comparatively independent of the general economic
situation. To prevent possible losses of maintenance units, the business area pursues
corresponding customer retention strategies. In addition we continuously implement efficiency
programs to counter rising personnel and procurement costs.
The new installations business is closely linked with the construction sector and is therefore
exposed to greater fluctuations. However, due to the longer project times in this business,
downturns can be anticipated so countermeasures and capacity adjustments can be carried out at
an early stage. Risks, particularly in the execution of complex major projects, are countered by the
use of project management measures. Risks from rising material prices are offset by efficiency
improvements in production and optimized procurement strategies.
Risks from increasing business activities in the Asian markets, where business is more dependent
on new installations and therefore on construction activity, are largely offset by our successful
presence on the established markets in Europe and the Americas. Possible economic risks in the
emerging nations are countered by expanding the modernization and service business and
improving efficiency. Exchange rate risks resulting from the international nature of our business are
reduced by a high level of local value creation and hedged using financial instruments.
Accident risks cannot be ruled out completely during the installation, maintenance and use of the
business area’s products. A safety-oriented corporate culture, employee selection and
corresponding training programs on safe conduct on job sites (Safety First) counter the risk of
employee accidents. We carefully select and train our installation and service employees to ensure
maximum safety and quality of the products we install and service, providing users with bestpossible protection. Elevator Technology’s goal is to rule out accidents as far as possible, also in
part to avoid loss of reputation for thyssenkrupp in this field of business.
Industrial Solutions – A major risk factor for the business area is the uncertainty concerning the

performance of the global economy, the stability of growth in the USA, and the future development
of other major economies such as China, India, and Brazil. Further risks include a fall in demand
for capital goods from customers in the oil and gas industries and the mining sector as a result of
lower oil and raw material prices. In addition to the decline in raw material and oil prices, political
developments in important sales regions (for example in the Middle East & Africa region and in
Russia/Ukraine) could negatively impact the project situation in the Industrial Solutions business
area, leading to project deferrals or cancellations.

119

“Safety First” reduces accident risks at
Elevator Technology.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Specific risks in the execution of major long-term contracts and technically complex orders are
countered by professional and result-oriented project and claims management, intensive project
monitoring, and the increased use of project management measures. Particular technological risks
are associated with “first of its kind” contracts.

Industrial Solutions with risks in the
execution of long-term and technically
complex orders.

In the plant construction business increasing price and terms competition, for example from Asian
suppliers, could negatively impact margin quality.
Materials Services – The global materials and service business of Materials Services is subject to

cyclical swings in demand and prices on the procurement and sales sides – in some cases to a
greater extent than other businesses. This has a significant impact on our net working capital. Fast
delivery with minimum capital employed is a key success factor for our business model. We
therefore work continually to optimize our logistics and the entire supply chain, e.g. through the
further consolidation and centralized coordination of our purchasing activities as one of the market
leaders in Europe.
Cost reduction measures under Groupwide and business-area programs increase efficiency and
profitability. Systematic improvements to net working capital management help us optimize
inventories and minimize the risks of bad debt. At the same time we are intensifying our service
activities for materials.

Bad debt a specific risk for Materials
Services.

In addition we contain cyclical risks by our worldwide presence, broad customer base and high
degree of diversification. This results in a significant spread of risks.
The production sites of our unit AST are exposed to a risk of business interruptions and production
losses. We are countering these risks mainly through preventive maintenance, modernization and
investment.
Steel Europe – Risks going forward for the Steel Europe business area include in particular
uncertainties on the sales and procurement markets, earnings and margin risks from high import
pressure and global overcapacities, risks from exchange rate fluctuations and from the emissions
trading system and the Renewable Energies Act. If the economy were to deteriorate, the risk of
customer insolvencies would increase.

To contain the risk of cyclical demand fluctuations the business area optimizes costs in all areas,
adjusts production levels in good time and focuses on less cyclical high-end market segments. The
risk of customer insolvencies is minimized by intensive monitoring and by adjusting payment
conditions and using commercial credit insurance facilities and other appropriate instruments.
Constant optimization of supply chains reduces risks to quality and delivery performance.

120

High volatility of steel business a
challenge for Steel Europe.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Steel Europe continues to counter intense competition on the market for flat steel products with its
strengths in technological expertise and an even stronger focus on markets and customers,
allowing differentiation from the competition. This involves systematic investment in research and
development projects aimed at developing innovative products and customer solutions and
bringing them to market quickly. In addition Steel Europe has reorganized quality management to
further strengthen the focus on product quality.
The business area has integrated a business and technical risk controlling system for property
insurance into its risk management process. Additional investment and maintenance budgets are
available to further optimize fire prevention. The risks of other business interruptions are reduced
by ongoing preventive maintenance, modernization and investment. In the event of business
interruptions, business continuity plans are in place specifying measures for remedying damage.
Like all businesses, Steel Europe is exposed to the increasing risk of attacks on its IT infrastructure
described under “Risks associated with information security”. We focus on protecting production
against unauthorized access for purposes of espionage or sabotage. In this connection we are at
the same time driving forward the digitization of our business processes in a secure IT environment.
The move towards an energy system dominated by renewables in Germany is creating major
challenges for energy-intensive industries in general and the steel sector in particular. Possible cuts
to the exemptions applying to producers of in-house electricity in the forthcoming amendment of
the Renewable Energies Act represent a threat to the company. Added to this are further costdriving factors associated with the integration of renewable energies, such as the necessary
expansion of the electricity grids and the storage of reserve capacities to provide security of supply.
Regulatory requirements placed on the electricity and gas networks of our large production sites
and our power plants could result in further cost impacts. The risk of rising electricity prices is
being countered at Steel Europe by increasing the supply of in-house produced electricity. In
response to the risk of increasing natural gas prices, the Group is pursuing a centrally managed
price hedging strategy.
We could face further costs for emissions allowances in the third trading period of the EU emissions
trading system from 2013 to 2020. However, this risk is countered by the emission allowances we
already hold and through hedging transactions. The models for continuing emissions trading after
2020 currently being discussed at European level contain significant regulatory risks. A potentially
steep rise in the need to purchase allowances could be accompanied by increasing allowance
prices, which would weigh heavily on the European steel industry in the international markets.
The risk of rising raw materials prices is countered by using alternative procurement sources, riskreducing procurement strategies, active risk management, and margin-securing measures.

121

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Forecast, opportunity and risk report

Steel Americas – The production-related risks at the steel mill in Brazil, which in the prior fiscal year

were still leading to stoppages mainly in iron production and in the melt shop, were effectively
contained through further process optimizations. This was reflected in a significantly improved
operating performance in the past fiscal year, particularly in the second half.
In the reporting year we also obtained the operating license for our steel mill in Brazil from the
Brazilian authorities. This decision further reduced the risk of production outages at CSA.
Risks typical to the industry include future market prices for raw materials on the procurement side
(particularly iron ore and coking coal) and for steel (particularly in Brazil and the USA) on the selling
side. We are countering the sales risks by building our own sales organization in Brazil. We have
already built some promising long-term customer relationships on the international market. On the
local market demand showed very encouraging growth following (partial) closures of crude steel
production capacities at competitors in the second half of the past fiscal year. The next few months
will show whether this recovery is sustained.
For Steel Americas risks can arise from exchange rate fluctuations. The Brazilian real stabilized in
the past fiscal year, which increased the value of input tax credits, which are denominated in real
but accounted for in US dollars, but this also created exchange-rate-related cost disadvantages in
current operating business. Short- and medium-term risks associated with fluctuations of the
exchange rate of the Brazilian real against the US dollar are minimized by exchange rate hedges in
accordance with the requirements of the thyssenkrupp Group Regulation Corporate Finance. Over
the long term the performance of the Brazilian real will continue to significantly impact our cost
position in operating business. In view of the political and economic uncertainties in the country,
we do not expect a stabilization of the Brazilian real.
The risk associated with electricity prices in Brazil has now been further significantly reduced as a
result of falling prices. In addition steam and gas production in the power plant was optimized,
which ultimately stabilized and increased in-house electricity production at the steel mill and
sharply reduced energy procurement costs and dependence on the electricity market.
Further risks typical to Brazil relate to the fast-changing legal situation. Above all, new rules in tax
legislation call for fast and careful action. To counter such fiscal risks at an early stage the steel mill
and the tax department of the regional headquarters in South America cooperate closely.

122

Continuing political and economic
uncertainties in Brazil pose risks for
Steel Americas.

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

Legal information
Corporate governance declaration
The corporate governance declaration issued in accordance with § 289a HGB is part of the
combined management report and is published on the Company’s website at
www.thyssenkrupp.com/cgd2015-16.

Compensation report
Contained in the corporate governance report, the compensation report in accordance with § 289 (2)
no. 4, § 315 (2) no. 4 HGB is part of the combined management report.

Takeover-related disclosures
The following information, valid September 30, 2016, is presented in accordance with § 289
(4), § 315 (4) HGB. Details under § 289 (4), § 315 (4) HGB which do not apply at thyssenkrupp are
not mentioned.

Composition of capital stock
The capital stock of thyssenkrupp AG amounts to €1,448,801,144.32 and consists of 565,937,947
no-par value bearer shares. Each share carries the same rights and grants one vote at the Annual
General Meeting.

Direct and indirect shareholdings exceeding 10% of the voting rights
At the date of issuance the following shareholdings in the Company exceed 10% of the voting
rights:
■ Direct shareholding of Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, Essen, in the amount

of 23.03% of the voting rights of thyssenkrupp AG;
■ Indirect shareholding of Cevian Capital II GP Limited, St. Helier, Jersey, in the amount of 15.08%

of the voting rights. Voting rights are attributed to it by its controlled company Cevian Capital II
Master Fund LP, Cayman Islands, which has a direct shareholding of 12.23% of the voting rights
of thyssenkrupp AG.

123

www.thyssenkrupp.com >
Company > Management >
Corporate governance

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

Appointment and dismissal of Executive Board members, amendments to the
Articles of Association
The appointment and dismissal of members of the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG is subject
to § 84 and § 85 AktG and § 31 Codetermination Act (MitbestG) in conjunction with § 6 of the Articles
of Association. Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of the Annual
General Meeting with a majority of at least three quarters of the capital stock represented; §§ 179 ff.
AktG apply. Under § 11 (9) of the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board is authorized to
resolve amendments to the Articles of Association which relate only to their wording. If the
authorized capital pursuant to § 5 (5) of the Articles of Association has not been used or has been
only partly used by January 16, 2019, the Supervisory Board may also amend the wording of § 5.

Authorization of the Executive Board to issue shares and exclude subscription rights
Authorized capital – Under § 5 (5) of the Articles of Association, the Executive Board is authorized,

with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the Company’s capital stock on one or
more occasions on or before January 16, 2019 by up to €370 million by issuing up to
144,531,250 new no-par value bearer shares in exchange for cash and/or contributions in kind
(authorized capital).
It may exclude shareholders’ subscription rights with the approval of the Supervisory Board in the
following cases:
■ to round off fractional amounts
■ to the extent necessary to grant holders, or creditors in the case of registered securities, of

option or conversion rights or conversion obligations issued by thyssenkrupp AG or its Group
companies subscription rights to new shares as would be due to them as shareholders after
exercise of the option or conversion rights or after fulfillment of the conversion obligations
■ if the issue price of new shares issued for capital increases in exchange for cash contributions is

not significantly lower than the stock market price of already listed shares at the time the final
issue price is determined, which should be as close as possible to the time the shares are issued,
and the shares issued in total do not exceed 10% of the capital stock either at the time this
authorization becomes effective or at the time it is exercised. There shall be counted towards this
limit of 10% of the capital stock the share of the capital stock attributable to treasury shares
which are sold from the time this authorization becomes effective in direct or analogous
application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG, as well as the share of the capital stock attributable to
shares relating to conversion and/or option rights and/or conversion obligations from bonds
issued with exclusion of subscription rights according to § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG from the time
this authorization becomes effective in accordance with the authorization of the Annual General
Meeting on January 17, 2014.
■ in the event of capital increases in exchange for contributions in kind

124

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

Under the aforesaid authorizations the total shares issued with subscription rights excluded for
capital increases in exchange for cash and/or contributions in kind may not exceed 20% of the
capital stock either at the time the authorization becomes effective or at the time it is exercised. Up
to the issue of shares without subscription rights, there shall be counted towards the aforesaid 20%
limit (i) treasury shares sold with subscription rights excluded, and (ii) shares to be issued to
service bonds with conversion and/or option rights, insofar as the bonds were issued on the basis
of the authorization of the Annual General Meeting of January 17, 2014 with shareholder
subscription rights excluded.
The Executive Board is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to determine the
further content and conditions of the share issue.
Conditional capital – Under § 5 (6) of the Articles of Association the Company’s capital stock is

conditionally increased by up to €250,000,000, divided into up to 97,656,250 no-par bearer
shares (conditional capital). The conditional capital increase will only be implemented to the extent
that the holders or creditors of option or conversion rights or those with an obligation to convert
warrant or convertible bonds issued against cash contribution that are issued or guaranteed by the
Company or a subordinate Group company on or before January 16, 2019 based on the
authorization of the Executive Board by resolution by the Annual General Meeting passed on
January 17, 2014 actually use their option or conversion rights or, to the extent that they are
obliged to convert, fulfill their obligation to convert or to the extent that the Company exercises an
option to grant shares of the Company in whole or in part instead of payment of the cash amount
due provided no cash compensation is granted or no treasury shares or shares of another listed
company are used for servicing in each case. New shares are issued at the option or conversion
price to be determined in each case according to the above mentioned authorization resolution.
The new shares participate in profits from the start of the fiscal year in which they are created. To
the extent legally permissible the Executive Board, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board,
may determine the profit participation of new shares differently than § 60 (2) AktG. The Executive
Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to determine the further
details of the conditional capital increase.

Authorization of the Executive Board to repurchase stock
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 30, 2015 the Company was authorized
until January 29, 2020 to purchase for all legally permissible purposes treasury shares up to a
total of 10% of the capital stock at the time of the resolution of €1,448,801,144.32 or – if lower –
at the time the authorization is exercised. The authorization may be exercised in whole or in
installments, once or several times, directly by the Company or by controlled enterprises or
enterprises majority-owned by the Company or by third parties acting for the Company’s account
or for the account of controlled enterprises or enterprises majority-owned by the Company. The
purchase may be effected on the open market or by means of a public offer or public invitation to
tender or by issue of tender rights to shareholders or by using equity derivatives (put or call options
or a combination of the two). If the shares are purchased on the open market, the countervalue per
share paid by the Company (excluding incidental costs) may not be more than 5% higher or lower
than the price determined on the day of trading by the opening auction in the Xetra trading system
(or a comparable successor system).

125

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

If the shares are purchased by means of a public offer, the purchase price or the limits of the price
range per share (excluding incidental costs) may not be more than 10% higher or lower than the
average closing price in the Xetra trading system (or a comparable successor system) on the three
trading days before the date of the announcement of the offer. If, after announcement of an offer,
the relevant price or the limits of the price range are subject to significant changes, the offer may
be modified. In this case the price is based on the average price over the three days of trading
before the announcement of a modification and may not be more than 10% higher or lower than
this amount. The volume of a public offer may be limited. Insofar as the volume of shares tendered
exceeds the volume to be repurchased, tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that
shares may be purchased in proportion to the number of shares tendered (tender quota) instead of
in proportion to the number of shares held in the company (shareholding quota). In addition tender
rights may be partially excluded to the extent that priority is given to smaller lots of up to 100
shares per shareholder or the number of shares is rounded to avoid fractions of shares.
If the shares are purchased by means of a public invitation to all shareholders to tender, the
Company specifies a purchase price range per share within which shares may be tendered. The
purchase price range may be modified if the share price changes significantly during the term of
the offer from the share price at the time of publication of the invitation to tender. The purchase
price per share to be paid by the Company (excluding incidental costs), which is calculated by the
Company on the basis of the tenders received, may not be more than 10% higher or lower than the
average closing price in the Xetra trading system (or a comparable successor system) on the three
trading days before the cut-off date described below. The cut-off date is the date on which the
Executive Board of the Company finalizes its formal decision to publish or modify the invitation to
tender. The volume of tenders accepted may be limited. If due to the limited volume not all of
several equal tenders can be accepted, tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that
shares are purchased on the basis of tender quotas instead of shareholding quotas. In addition
tender rights may be partially excluded to the extent that priority is given to smaller lots of up to
100 shares per shareholder or the number of shares is rounded to avoid fractions of shares.
If the shares are purchased by means of issuing tender rights to shareholders, these may be
allocated for each share of the Company. A fixed number of tender rights based on the ratio of the
Company’s capital stock to the volume of shares to be repurchased by the Company will entitle a
shareholder to sell one share of the Company back to the Company. Tender rights may also be
allocated in such a way that one tender right is allocated for a certain number of shares based on
the ratio of capital stock to the buy-back volume. Fractions of tender rights are not allocated; in
these cases any partial tender rights are excluded. The price or the limits of the price range (in
each case excluding incidental costs) for which a share of the Company may be sold when

126

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

exercising a tender right are subject to the provisions of the above paragraph, with the relevant cutoff date being the date of publication of the buyback offer with associated tender rights, and in the
event of modifications the relevant cut-off date being the date of publication of the modification.
Further details of the tender rights, in particular their content, term and if appropriate their
tradability, are determined by the Executive Board of the Company.
If the shares are purchased using equity derivatives (put options, call options, combinations of put
and call options, or forward contracts), the equity derivatives must be agreed with one or several
banks, one or several enterprises operating in accordance with § 53 (1) sentence 1 or § 53b (1)
sentence 1 or (7) of the German Banking Act or a group or consortium of banks and/or such
enterprises. The terms and conditions must ensure that the equity derivatives are based only on
shares acquired in accordance with the principle of equal treatment for shareholders; this is
satisfied by acquiring the shares on the open market. The term of each individual equity derivative
may not exceed 18 months, may end no later than January 29, 2020 and must be selected in such
a way that the purchase of shares to exercise or fulfill the options cannot take place later than
January 29, 2020. The authorization may be exercised in whole or in part, once or in several
different transactions by the Company, and also by an entity dependent on or majority-owned by
the Company or by third parties acting on behalf of the Company or enterprises dependent on or
majority-owned by the Company. Each share purchase by means of equity derivatives is limited to
a maximum of 5% of the capital stock of €1,448,801,144.32 at the time of the resolution or – if
lower – at the time the authorization is exercised. If treasury shares are purchased by means of
equity derivatives in accordance with the authorization provisions, all rights of shareholders to enter
into such equity derivatives with the Company and all shareholder tender rights are excluded.
The Executive Board is authorized to use the repurchased treasury shares for all legally permissible
purposes. In particular it may cancel the shares, sell them by means other than on the open
market, by offer to the shareholders or in exchange for contributions in kind, use them to fulfill
option and/or conversion rights/obligations in respect of warrant and convertible bonds issued by
the Company or the Company’s subsidiaries, grant the holders of such warrant and/or convertible
bonds a subscription right to the shares as would be due to them after exercise of the option or
conversion rights or after fulfilment of a conversion obligation, and offer them for sale to employees
of the Company and its affiliated companies. With the exception of cancelation shareholders’
subscription rights are excluded in the cases stated. In addition if treasury shares are sold by
means of a tender offer to all shareholders, the Executive Board may exclude shareholders’
subscription rights for fractional amounts. The Supervisory Board may determine that measures by
the Executive Board under this authorization to purchase and use treasury shares are subject to its
approval.

127

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

Authorization of the Executive Board to issue warrant and convertible bonds and to exclude
subscription rights
By resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 17, 2014 the Executive Board was
authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to take the following measures on or before
January 16, 2019:
■ to issue once or several times bearer or registered warrant and/or convertible bonds (together

“bonds”) in the total par value of up to €2 billion with or without limited terms, and to grant to or
impose on the holders or creditors of convertible bonds conversion rights or obligations for nopar bearer shares of the Company with a total share of the capital stock of up to €250 million in
accordance with the conditions of these bonds. The bonds can also be issued by a subordinate
Group company of the Company; in this event the Executive Board is authorized, with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to guarantee the bonds for the Company and to grant to or
impose on the holders or creditors of these bonds option or conversion rights or obligations for
no-par bearer shares of the Company.
■ The bonds are divided into partial bonds. In the event of a warrant bond issue, one or several

options are attached to each partial bond which entitle the holder or creditor to purchase no-par
bearer shares of the Company in accordance with the option conditions determined by the
Executive Board. The option conditions may specify that the option price can also be settled by
transfer of partial bonds and if appropriate a cash surcharge. Where fractional shares occur, the
option or bond conditions may specify that these fractional shares can be added together for the
purchase of whole shares, if appropriate subject to payment of a surcharge.
■ In the event of a convertible bond issue, the holders of bearer bonds or creditors of partial bonds

obtain the right to convert their partial bonds into no-par bearer shares of the Company in
accordance with the convertible bond conditions determined by the Executive Board. The
conversion ratio is calculated by dividing the par value or, if lower, the issuing amount of a partial
bond by the fixed conversion price for a no-par bearer share of the Company. The ratio may be
rounded up or down; in addition, it may be specified that a cash surcharge must be paid and that
non-convertible fractional amounts must be grouped together and/or compensated in cash. The
bond conditions can specify a variable conversion ratio (subject to the minimum price specified
below) within a pre-defined range depending on the development of the price of the no-par
shares of the Company during the term of the bond.

128

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

■ The bond conditions may also provide the Company with the right in the event of a conversion or

exercise of an option not to issue new no-par shares, but to pay a cash amount corresponding to
the weighted average closing price of the shares in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt
Stock Exchange over a period specified in the bond conditions in lieu of the shares which would
otherwise be issued. The bond conditions may also specify that, at the Company’s discretion, the
bond with option rights or conversion rights or obligations attached is to be converted not into
new shares from conditional capital but into existing shares of the Company or another listed
company, or that the option right can be fulfilled by delivering such shares. The bond conditions
may also include a combination of these performance options.
■ The bond conditions may also provide the Company with the right to grant the holders or

creditors of a bond with option rights or conversion rights or obligations which has reached
maturity (this also includes maturity due to termination) no-par shares of the Company or
another listed company in lieu of part or all of the payable cash payment.
■ The convertible bond conditions may also include an obligation to convert at the end of the term

(or earlier or at the time of a specified event). The convertible bond conditions may entitle the
Company to fully or partly offset in cash any difference between the par value or lower issuing
amount of the convertible bond and the product of conversion price and conversion ratio.
■ With the exception of cases where a right to offer alternative performance or a conversion

obligation applies, the fixed option or conversion price for a no-par share of the Company must
be no lower than 80% of the weighted average closing price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange over the last 10 trading
days before the Executive Board passes the resolution to issue the bond with option or
conversion rights or conversion obligations attached, or – in the event that a subscription right is
granted – no lower than 80% of the weighted average trading price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange during the subscription
period with the exception of the days of the subscription period necessary to ensure the option or
conversion price can be announced in due time in accordance with § 186 (2) sentence 2 AktG.
§ 9 (1) AktG and § 199 AktG remain unaffected.
■ In the cases where a right to offer alternative performance or a conversion obligation applies, the

option or conversion price in accordance with the bond conditions must correspond at least to
the above minimum price or the weighted average closing price of the no-par shares of the
Company in the electronic trading system of Frankfurt Stock Exchange over the 10 trading days
before the final maturity date or another specified date, even if this average price is lower than
the aforesaid minimum price (80%). § 9 (1) AktG and § 199 AktG remain unaffected.

129

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

■ Notwithstanding § 9 (1) AktG, the option or conversion price may be reduced under a dilution

protection clause as defined in the conditions if during the option or conversion period the
Company (i) increases the capital stock through a capital increase from Company funds or (ii)
increases the capital stock or sells treasury stock granting an exclusive subscription right to its
shareholders or (iii) issues, grants or guarantees further bonds with option or conversion rights
or obligations granting an exclusive subscription right to its shareholders, and in cases (ii) and (iii)
the owners of existing option or conversion rights or obligations are not granted subscription
rights such as they would have held after exercising the option or conversion right or after
fulfilling the conversion obligation. The reduction of the option or conversion price may also be
effected by a cash payment upon exercise of the option or conversion right or upon fulfillment of
a conversion obligation. In addition, the conditions may require modification of the option or
conversion rights or conversion obligations in the case of a capital reduction or other measures
or events which are associated with an economic dilution of the value of the option rights or
conversion rights or conversion obligations (e.g. dividends, third parties gaining control).
■ To the extent that shareholders are not permitted to subscribe to the bonds directly, the statutory

subscription rights will be granted to shareholders in such a way that the bonds are acquired by
a bank or banking syndicate which undertakes to offer them to the shareholders for subscription.
If the bonds are issued by a subordinate Group company, the Company must ensure that
statutory subscription rights are granted to the shareholders of the Company within the meaning
of the sentence above.
■ However, the Executive Board is authorized, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to

exclude shareholders’ subscription rights in the following cases:
– to eliminate fractional amounts
– to the extent necessary to grant holders, or creditors in the case of registered securities, of
option or conversion rights or obligations previously issued by thyssenkrupp AG or its Group
companies subscription rights to new shares as would be due to them as shareholders after
exercise of the option or conversion rights or after fulfillment of a conversion obligation
– in the case of bonds issued against cash payment, to the extent that the Executive Board, after
due review, reaches the conclusion that the issuing price of the bonds is not significantly lower
than their theoretical fair value, calculated using recognized, in particular financial
mathematics methods. However, this authorization to exclude subscription rights only applies
to bonds issued with an option right or conversion right or obligation, with an option or
conversion right or a conversion obligation for shares with a share of the capital stock that may
not exceed 10% of the capital stock in total either on the date this authorization becomes
effective or – if this value is lower – on the date the authorization is exercised. There shall be
counted towards this limit of 10% of the capital stock the share of the capital stock attributable
to shares which during the period between granting of this authorization and the issue

130

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

– excluding subscription rights in accordance with § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG utilizing this
authorization of bonds with conversion and/or option rights or conversion obligations excluding
subscription rights are either issued under an authorization of the Executive Board to exclude
subscription rights in direct or analogous application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG or sold as
acquired treasury stock in corresponding application of § 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG
■ The total number of bonds issued excluding subscription rights under the above authorizations is

limited to the number of bonds with an option or conversion right or a conversion obligation for
shares with a share of the capital stock that must not exceed 20% of the capital stock in total,
either at the time this authorization enters into force or – if this value is lower – at the time it is
exercised. There shall be counted towards the above 20% limit (i) treasury shares which during
the term of this authorization until the issue excluding subscription rights of the bonds with
option and/or conversion rights or obligations are sold excluding subscription rights, and (ii)
shares which during the term of this authorization until the issue excluding subscription rights of
bonds with option and/or conversion rights or obligations are issued excluding subscription
rights from authorized capital.
■ The Executive Board is authorized, subject to Supervisory Board approval, to determine the

further details of the issuing of the bonds, in particular interest rate, issuing price, term and
denomination, dilution protection provisions, option or conversion period as well as the
conversion and option price within the above framework, or to fix them in agreement with the
boards of the Group company issuing the option or convertible bond.
Key agreements subject to conditions

thyssenkrupp AG is party to the following agreements that contain certain conditions in the event of
a change of control as a result of a takeover bid:
■ The Company has concluded an agreement with a banking consortium on a committed credit

facility in the amount of €2.0 billion. Each member of the banking consortium has the right under
certain conditions to cancel its share in the credit facility and its share in outstanding loans and
demand their repayment if one or more shareholders who act in a concerted manner towards
thyssenkrupp AG with shareholders other than the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach
Foundation, together hold more than 50% of the voting rights or capital stock of
thyssenkrupp AG.
■ In the fiscal years 2011 / 2012, 2012 / 2013, 2013 / 2014, 2014 / 2015 and 2015 / 2016 the

Company issued bonds and private placements in the total amount of €6.5 billion. A change of
control, i.e. cases where a third party or third parties acting in a concerted manner towards
thyssenkrupp AG acquire or hold more than 50% of the capital stock or more than 50% of the
voting shares of thyssenkrupp AG, may under certain conditions lead to the early redemption
including interest.

131

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
02 Combined management report | Legal information

■ The Company is party to a shareholders’ agreement in respect of Atlas Elektronik GmbH (joint

venture) under which the co-shareholder Airbus Defence and Space GmbH has a call option on
specific assets and liabilities of the joint venture at fair value in the event that a competitor of the
joint venture or of the co-shareholder directly or indirectly acquires a controlling interest in the
Company. If the call option is exercised, thyssenkrupp Technologies AG (today operating under
the name thyssenkrupp Technologies Beteiligungen GmbH) is entitled to purchase all the coshareholder’s shares in the joint venture at fair value plus 5% premium. If the call option is not
exercised, the co-shareholder has a put option in respect of the shares in the joint venture at the
specified purchase price conditions.
■ In connection with the reappointments of the members of the Executive Board of thyssenkrupp AG –

Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, Guido Kerkhoff and Oliver Burkhard – resolved in the 2014 / 2015 fiscal
year, compensation arrangements for the event of a takeover bid (change of control clause) were
agreed in their respective service contracts with effect from the second period of appointment. A
corresponding arrangement, likewise effective from the second period of appointment, was also
agreed with Dr. Donatus Kaufmann in connection with his reappointment in this fiscal year.
Under these arrangements the Executive Board members mentioned, in the event of a change of
control, have a special right of termination which triggers a severance payment equal to the sum
of two annual fixed salaries and two annual performance bonuses but not more than the
compensation due for the remaining term of their service contract. The installments of the LongTerm Incentive Plan (LTI) are not forfeited if the special right of termination is exercised. The
same applies if the Executive Board member’s contract is terminated by mutual agreement in
connection with the change of control. A change of control exists when (i) a shareholder has
acquired control within the meaning of the Securities Acquisition and Takeover Act (WpÜG) by
holding at least 30% of the voting shares in the Company, (ii) an enterprise agreement in
accordance with § 291 AktG has been entered into with the Company as a dependent enterprise
or (iii) the Company has been merged with another non-Group legal entity in accordance with § 2
Transformation Act (UmwG), unless the value of the other legal entity is less than 50% of the
value of the Company as evidenced by the agreed exchange ratio.

132

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Consolidated financial statements

Consolidated financial
statements

134 Consolidated statement of financial
position
136 Consolidated statement of income
137 Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
138 Consolidated statement of
changes in equity
139 Consolidated statement of cash flows

140 Notes to the consolidated financial
statements
165 Notes to the consolidated statement
of financial position
221 Notes to the consolidated statement
of income
227 Notes to the consolidated statement
of cash flows
227 Subsequent events
228 Other information
230 Independent Auditors’ Report
232 Responsibility Statement

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of financial position

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of financial position
ASSETS

Excel

million €

Intangible assets

Note

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

04

4,529

4,570

05, 29

8,728

8,872

Investment property

06

239

66

Investments accounted for using the equity method

07

303

284

Other financial assets

11

47

44

Other non-financial assets

12

343

445

Deferred tax assets

32

Property, plant and equipment

Total non-current assets

2,031

2,322

16,220

16,604

Inventories

09

6,945

6,341

Trade accounts receivable

10

5,118

5,003

Other financial assets

11

319

407

Other non-financial assets

12

2,397

2,376

Current income tax assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Assets held for sale

03

160

172

4,535

4,105

0

65

Total current assets

19,474

18,468

Total assets

35,694

35,072

134

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of financial position

E Q U I T Y A ND L I A B I L I T I E S

Excel

million €

Note

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Capital stock

1,449

1,449

Additional paid-in capital

5,434

5,434

(4,123)

(5,255)

Retained earnings
Cumulative other comprehensive income
Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Non-controlling interest

422

474

3,182

2,102

125

507

Total equity

13

3,307

2,609

Accrued pension and similar obligations

15

7,654

8,754

Provisions for other employee benefits

16

339

373

Other provisions

16

906

589

Deferred tax liabilities

32

53

33

Financial debt

17

6,385

6,157

Other financial liabilities

19

2

221

Other non-financial liabilities

20

5

6

15,344

16,134

Total non-current liabilities
Provisions for current employee benefits

16

362

408

Other provisions

16

1,066

963

241

279

Financial debt

17

1,570

1,455

Trade accounts payable

18

4,985

5,119

Other financial liabilities

19

1,226

975

Other non-financial liabilities

20

7,593

7,130

Total current liabilities

17,043

16,329

Total liabilities

32,387

32,463

Total equity and liabilities

35,694

35,072

Current income tax liabilities

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

135

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of income

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of income
Excel
million €, earnings per share in €

Note

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Net sales

24, 26

42,778

39,263

Cost of sales

04, 05

(35,904)

(32,637)

6,874

6,625

Gross margin
Research and development cost

(330)

(373)

Selling expenses

(2,996)

(2,865)

General and administrative expenses

(2,284)

(2,415)

Other income
Other expenses
Other gains/(losses), net

27

284

234

04, 28

(371)

(114)

29

(223)

112

954

1,204

Income/(loss) from operations
Income from companies accounted for using the equity method
Finance income
Finance expense
Financial income/(expense), net

31

Income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
Income tax (expense)/income

32

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)
Discontinued operations (net of tax)

03

Net income/(loss)

33

46

1,320

1,030

(1,811)

(1,627)

(458)

(552)

496

652

(217)

(391)

279

261

(11)

0

268

261

Thereof:
thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders

309

296

Non-controlling interest

(41)

(35)

268

261

Net income/(loss)
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on

33

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

0.57

0.52

Net income/(loss) (attributable to thyssenkrupp AG's stockholders)

0.55

0.52

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

136

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

thyssenkrupp AG –
Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
Excel
Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

million €

Net income/(loss)

268

261

(380)

(1,272)

Items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods:
Other comprehensive income from remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net
Tax effect
Other comprehensive income from remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations, net
Share of unrealized gains/(losses) of investments accounted for using the equity-method
Subtotals of items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods

101

381

(279)

(891)

3

(10)

(276)

(901)

119

73

Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods:
Foreign currency translation adjustment
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net
Net realized (gains)/losses

5

1

124

74

Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net

0

0

Net realized (gains)/losses

0

0

Tax effect

0

0

Net unrealized (gains)/losses

0

0

(76)

(18)

Net unrealized (gains)/losses
Unrealized gains/(losses) from available-for-sale financial assets

Unrealized gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments (cash flow hedges)
Change in unrealized gains/(losses), net
Net realized (gains)/losses

68

7

Tax effect

(5)

14

Net unrealized (gains)/losses
Share of unrealized gains/(losses) of investments accounted for using the equity-method
Subtotals of items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit or loss in future periods
Other comprehensive income

(13)

3

18

(9)

129

68

(147)

(833)

121

(572)

thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders

213

(559)

Non-controlling interest

(92)

(13)

Continuing operations

224

(559)

Discontinued operations

(11)

0

Total comprehensive income
Thereof:

Total comprehensive income attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders refers to:

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

137

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of changes in equity

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of changes in equity
Excel
Equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders
Cumulative other comprehensive income

million €,
(except number of shares)

Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2014

Number of shares
outstanding Capital stock

565,937,947

1,449

Additional
paid-in
capital

Retained
earnings

5,434

(4,142)

Net income/(loss)

Foreign
currency Available-fortranslation sale financial
adjustment
assets

248

6

Share of
Derivative investments
financial
accounted
instruments for using the
equity
(cash flow
method
hedges)

(51)

39

309

Other comprehensive
income
Total comprehensive
income

Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2015

565,937,947

1,449

5,434

Net income/(loss)

Total comprehensive
income

(51)

(147)

33

169

0

(7)

18

213

(92)

121

0

(63)

(63)

(62)

0

(62)

0

15

15

1

1

(2)

(1)

47

47

51

98

3,182

125

3,307

296

(35)

261

(4,123)

417

6

(58)

57

(898)

58

0

(6)

(9)

(855)

22

(833)

(602)

58

0

(6)

(9)

(559)

(13)

(572)

0

(35)

(35)

(456)

Other changes
Balance as of
Sept. 30, 2016

(85)

9

11
565,937,947

1,449

5,434

268

(96)

(85)

Changes of shares of
already consolidated
companies1)

3,199

(41)

18

Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest
Payment of
thyssenkrupp AG
dividend

216

309
(7)

296

Other comprehensive
income

2,983

0

(62)

Other changes

Total equity

169

Capital increase
Changes of shares of
already consolidated
companies

Noncontrolling
interest

(276)

Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest
Payment of
thyssenkrupp AG
dividend

Total

(5,255)

484

See Note 02 to the consolidated financial statements regarding the equity impacts of the full consolidation of CSA.
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
1)

138

6

(64)

48

(85)

(447)

440

(7)

11

(10)

1

2,102

507

2,609

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated statement of cash flows

thyssenkrupp AG – Consolidated
statement of cash flows
Excel
million €

Net income/(loss)
Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to operating cash flows:
Discontinued operations (net of tax)
Deferred income taxes, net
Depreciation, amortization and impairment of non-current assets
Reversals of impairment losses of non-current assets
Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method, net of dividends received
(Gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures and other non-cash changes
– Inventories
– Trade accounts receivable
– Accrued pension and similar obligations
– Other provisions
– Trade accounts payable
- Other assets/liabilities not related to investing or financing activities
Operating cash flows – continuing operations
Operating cash flows – discontinued operations
Operating cash flows – total
Purchase of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets
Expenditures for acquisitions of consolidated companies net of cash acquired
Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (inclusive of advance payments) and investment property
Capital expenditures for intangible assets (inclusive of advance payments)
Proceeds from disposals of investments accounted for using the equity method and non-current financial assets
Proceeds from disposals of previously consolidated companies net of cash disposed
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and investment property
Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets
Cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations
Cash flows from investing activities – total
Proceeds from issuance of bonds
Repayments of bonds
Proceeds from liabilities to financial institutions
Repayments of liabilities to financial institutions
Proceeds from/(repayments on) loan notes and other loans
Increase/(decrease) in bills of exchange
(Increase)/decrease in current securities
Payment of thyssenkrupp AG dividend
Proceeds from non-controlling interest to equity
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest
Expenditures for acquisitions of shares of already consolidated companies
Other financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations
Cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations
Cash flows from financing activities – total
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – total
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – total
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year – total
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year – total
Additional information regarding cash flows from interest, dividends and income taxes which are included in operating cash flows of continuing operations:
Interest received
Interest paid
Dividends received
Income taxes paid
See Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.

139

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

268

261

11
(110)
1,397
(3)
(33)
(58)

0
83
1,259
(8)
(46)
(23)

311
636
(138)
77
36
(1,083)
1,311
(11)
1,300
(2)
45
(1,150)
(128)
97
400
100
0
(638)
0
(638)
1,350
(750)
2,855
(3,074)
58
4
1
(62)
15
(63)
(1)
(411)
(78)
0
(78)
584
(89)
4,040
4,535

625
74
(119)
(55)
146
(811)
1,387
0
1,387
(8)
(17)
(1,216)
(146)
1
9
180
2
(1,196)
0
(1,196)
850
(1,000)
972
(1,140)
(142)
(4)
(3)
(85)
0
(35)
(6)
(67)
(658)
0
(658)
(467)
37
4,535
4,105

122
(464)
116
(274)

89
(432)
61
(324)

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the
consolidated financial statements
Corporate information
thyssenkrupp Aktiengesellschaft (“thyssenkrupp AG” or “Company”) is a publicly traded corporation
domiciled in Duisburg and Essen in Germany. The consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG
and its subsidiaries, collectively the “Group”, for the year ended September 30, 2016, were authorized
for issuance in accordance with a resolution of the Executive Board on November 15, 2016.

Statement of compliance
Applying Art. 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the Group’s consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
and its interpretations of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) effective within the EU in
accordance with the Regulation No. 1606 / 2002 of the European Parliament and the Council
concerning the use of International Accounting Standards.

01 Summary of significant accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Euros since this is the currency in which the
majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated, with all amounts rounded to the nearest million
except when otherwise indicated; this may result in differences compared to the unrounded figures.

Consolidation
The Group’s consolidated financial statements include the accounts of thyssenkrupp AG and all
significant entities which are directly or indirectly controlled by thyssenkrupp AG (subsidiaries). Control
is achieved where thyssenkrupp AG has the power, is exposed to positive or negative variable returns
from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect the amount of its
returns. This typically occurs when thyssenkrupp AG possesses more than half of the voting rights of a
company. As far as structured entities are concerned, the ability to control does not result from a
majority of voting rights but from contractual agreements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the
date that control commences until the date that control ceases. Capital consolidation is performed by
offsetting the carrying amounts of subsidiaries against their attributable equity. On acquisition, the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values
at the date of acquisition.

140

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The interest of minority shareholders (non-controlling interest) is stated at the minority’s proportion of
the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on
consolidation.
Joint arrangements where two or more parties jointly control an activity either classify as joint
operations or as joint ventures. Joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities require
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby
the parties that have joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to
the arrangement. This results in including the assets and liabilities as well as the related income and
expense on a pro rata basis in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Joint ventures are joint
arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control have rights to the net assets of the
arrangement. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Where the
Group transacts with its joint operations or joint ventures, unrealized profits and losses are eliminated
to the extent of the Group’s interest.
Investments in associates are also accounted for using the equity method of accounting. An associate
is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint
control, through participation in the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed
when the Group holds 20% or more of the voting rights (“Associated Companies”). Where a Group
entity transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealized profits and losses are eliminated to the
extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant associate.
Subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates which influence the Group’s net assets,
financial position and results of operations only immaterially. Such entities are measured at fair value
or at cost when the fair value of unlisted equity instruments cannot be reliably measured; they are
presented under the “Other financial assets, non-current” line item.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest
in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint
operation, joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recognized as an asset and
is tested for impairment annually, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances
indicate that it might be impaired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture or an associate is included within the carrying
amount of the joint venture or the associate, respectively. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of
subsidiaries or joint operations is presented separately in the balance sheet.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.

141

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Foreign currency translation
The functional and reporting currency of thyssenkrupp AG and its relevant European subsidiaries is the
Euro (€). Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in such
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Profits and losses arising
on exchange are included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries included in the Group consolidated financial statements
where the functional currency is other than the Euro are translated using their functional currency which
is generally the respective local currency. The translation is performed using the current rate method, in
which balance sheet amounts are translated to the reporting currency using the rates of exchange
prevailing on the balance sheet date, while income statement amounts are translated using the
period’s average exchange rates. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of foreign
financial statements are accumulated and included in equity. Such translation differences are
recognized as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Companies that manage their sales, purchases, and financing substantially not in their local currency
use the currency of their primary economic environment as their functional currency. Using the
functional currency in these cases involves translating non-monetary items such as non-current assets,
including scheduled depreciation, and equity to the functional currency using the average exchange
rates of the respective year of addition. All other balance sheet line items are translated using the
exchange rate as of the balance sheet date and all other income statement line items are translated
using the period’s average exchange rates. The resulting translation differences are included in the
consolidated statement of income as “Other operating income or expenses”. Thereafter, the functional
currency financial statements are translated into the reporting currency using the current rate method.
The exchange rates of those currencies significant to the Group have developed as follows:

C U R R E N CI E S
Annual average exchange rate for the year ended
(Basis €1)

Exchange rate as of (Basis €1)
Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

US Dollar

1.12

1.12

1.15

1.11

Brazilian Real

4.48

3.62

3.43

4.03

Chinese Renminbi Yuan

7.12

7.45

7.09

7.25

Intangible assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are capitalized at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis
generally over a period of 3 to 15 years, depending on their estimated useful lives. Technology
resulting from the acquisition of Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft (HDW) is amortized over a period of 40

142

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

years. Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjusted when applicable on a prospective
basis. The amortization expense of intangible assets is primarily included in the “cost of sales” line
item in the consolidated statement of income.
Goodwill is stated at cost and tested for impairment annually or on such other occasions that events or
changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. Goodwill impairment losses are included
in other operating expenses.

Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Capitalized production costs for self-constructed assets include costs of material, direct labour, and
allocable material and manufacturing overhead. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the production
of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are
added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their
intended use. Administrative costs are capitalized only if such costs are directly related to production.
Maintenance and repair costs (day-to-day servicing) are expensed as incurred. The Group recognizes in
the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing parts and major
inspection of such an item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Where fixtures and equipment
comprise of significant parts having different useful lives those parts are depreciated separately.
Fixtures and equipment are depreciated over the customary useful life using the straight-line method.
Upon sale or retirement, the acquisition or production cost and related accumulated depreciation are
removed from the balance sheet and any gain or loss is included in the consolidated statement of
income.
The following useful lives are used as a basis for calculating depreciation:

Useful lives

Buildings (incl. investment property)

10 to 50 years

Building and land improvements

15 to 25 years

Technical machinery and equipment

8 to 25 years

Factory and office equipment

3 to 10 years

Investment property
Investment property consists of investments in land and buildings that are held to earn rental income
or for capital appreciation, rather than for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
administrative purposes or sale in the ordinary course of business. Investment property is stated at
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The fair value of the Group’s investment
property is stated in Note 06.

143

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Impairment
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment and investment property to determine whether there is any indication that those
assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). The recoverable
amount is the greater of the fair value less cost to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that
reflects current market conditions. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an
individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit to which the
asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to the Cash Generating Units that are expected to benefit
from the synergies of the acquisition. Those groups of Cash Generating Units represent the lowest level
within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable
amount of the Cash Generating Unit that carries a goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of
September 30, or on such other occasions that events or changes in circumstances indicate that it
might be impaired. For more details refer to Note 04.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized as an
expense immediately.
In case of impairment losses related to Cash Generating Units that carry a goodwill the carrying
amount of any goodwill allocated to the Cash Generating Unit is reduced first. If the amount of
impairment losses exceeds the carrying amount of goodwill, the difference is generally allocated
proportionally to the remaining non-current assets of the Cash Generating Unit to reduce their carrying
amounts accordingly.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (Cash Generating
Unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount. The revised amount cannot exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the
asset (Cash Generating Unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized as income
immediately. However, impairment losses of goodwill may not be reversed.

Leases
On initial recognition leases are classified as either finance or operating. Lease transactions whereby
the Group is the lessee and bears substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an
asset are accounted for as a finance lease. Accordingly, the Group capitalizes the leased asset at the
lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and subsequently
depreciates the leased asset over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life. In addition, the Group
records a corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet which is subsequently settled and
carried forward using the effective interest method. All other lease agreements entered into by the
Group, as a lessee, are accounted for as operating leases whereby the lease payments are expensed
on a straight-line basis.

144

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Lease transactions whereby the Group is the lessor and transfers substantially all of the benefits and
risks incident to the ownership of property, are accounted for as a sale and financing of the leased
asset. The Group recognizes a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease and
includes interest income in the consolidated income statement. All other lease agreements entered into
by the Group, as a lessor, are accounted for as operating leases whereby the leased asset remains on
the Group’s balance sheet and is depreciated. Scheduled lease payments are recognized in income on
a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of acquisition/manufacturing cost or net realizable value. Net
realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of
completion and selling costs. In general, inventories are valued using the average cost method.
Manufacturing cost includes direct material, labor and allocable material and manufacturing overhead
based on normal operating capacity.

Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that at the same time gives rise to a financial asset of one entity
and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments are recognized as
soon as thyssenkrupp becomes a contracting party to the financial instrument. In cases where trade
date and settlement date do not coincide, for non-derivative financial instruments the settlement date
is used for initial recognition or derecognition, while for derivatives the trade date is used. Financial
instruments stated as financial assets or financial liabilities are generally not offset; they are only offset
when a legal right to set-off exists at that time and settlement on a net basis is intended.

Determining fair value
The fair value of financial instruments is generally equal to the amount the Group would receive or pay
if it exchanged or settled the financial instruments on the balance sheet date. If available, quoted
market prices are used for financial instruments, especially for those categorized as available-for-sale
financial assets. Otherwise, fair values are calculated based on the market conditions prevailing on the
balance sheet date – interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices – using middle rates or prices.
In doing so, fair values are calculated using common methods, such as the option pricing models for
currency and interest rate options or the discounted cash flow method for interest rate swaps. The fair
values of some derivatives are based on external valuations by our financial partners.

Financial assets
In particular, financial assets include trade accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, derivative
financial assets, as well as equity instruments and bonds held. Financial assets are initially recognized
at fair value. This includes any transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial
assets, which are not carried at fair value through profit or loss in future periods. The fair values
recognized on the balance sheet usually reflect the market prices of the financial assets.

145

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Trade accounts receivable and other current receivables
Receivables are accounted for at amortized cost less valuation allowances.
Impairments in the form of individual allowances for doubtful accounts adequately consider default
risk. When there is objective evidence of default, the receivable concerned is derecognized.
Receivables that are immaterial, and receivables of similar default risk, are grouped together and
tested collectively for impairment based on past experience. Partially, impairments are accounted for
using separate allowance accounts. Whether default risk is recognized by means of an allowance
account or a direct derecognition of the receivable depends on the probability of default and the
reliability of its estimation.
Receivables that do not bear interest or bear below market interest rates and have an expected term of
more than one year are discounted with the discount subsequently amortized to interest income over
the term of the receivable.
The Group sells undivided interests in certain trade accounts and notes receivable both on an ongoing
and one-time basis to structured entities, which are not required to be consolidated, or to other lending
institutions. Financial assets sold under these arrangements are excluded from accounts receivable in
the Group’s balance sheet at the time of sale if it is assured that the cash flows related to those
receivables will be passed through to the acquirer and substantially all risks and rewards have been
transferred. If substantially all risks and rewards have neither been transferred nor retained, financial
assets are excluded from the books at the time of the sale if it is assured that the cash flows of the
receivables will be passed through to the acquirer and the acquirer has gained control over the
receivables. If substantially all risks and rewards have been retained financial assets remain in the
Group’s balance sheet as collateral for borrowings.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and demand deposits as well as financial assets that
are readily convertible to cash and which are only subject to an insignificant risk of change in value,
they are measured at amortized cost.

Financial assets held for trading
Derivatives that are not part of an effective hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 must be
assigned to this category when the fair value is positive as of measurement date. Gains or losses
resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss.

Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets not assigned to any of the
above categories (trade accounts receivable and other current receivables, cash and cash equivalents,
and financial assets held for trading). This category includes primarily equity and debt instruments
which are in general measured at fair value. Gains or losses resulting from the measurement of
available-for-sale financial assets are recognized directly in equity, with the exception of foreign

146

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

currency conversion effects on monetary items as well as impairment losses on monetary and nonmonetary items. On disposal of these financial assets, a cumulative gain or loss recognized directly in
equity until then is recognized in profit or loss of the respective period. When the fair value of unlisted
equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at cost.

Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
The Group does not use the option to categorize financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
when initially recognized.

Impairment of financial assets
At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence that the
carrying amounts of financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss are impaired.
Objective evidence includes, for example, considerable financial difficulty of the debtor obligor,
disappearance of an active market, and significant changes in the technological, market, economic or
legal environment. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity instrument is an
objective evidence of impairment.
The impairment loss on a financial asset carried at amortized cost is measured as the difference
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted
at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. An impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be
related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously
recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
If the decrease in fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset was previously recognized directly in
equity, such loss is transferred from equity to profit or loss as soon as an objective evidence of an
impairment loss exists. The amount of the impairment represents the difference between historical cost
(less any redemption and amortization) and the current fair value less any impairment loss on that
financial asset previously recognized in profit or loss. Impairment losses on equity instruments
classified as available-for-sale and recognized in the income statement are not reversed through profit
or loss, but rather through equity. The amount of any reversal of any write-down of debt instruments,
which objectively occurred after the impairment was recognized, is recognized in profit or loss.

Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are liabilities that must be settled in cash or other financial assets. These especially
include trade accounts payable, derivative financial liabilities and components of financial debt, mainly
bonds and other securitized liabilities, liabilities to financial institutions and finance lease liabilities.
Financial liabilities are initially carried at fair value. This includes any transaction costs directly
attributable to the acquisition of financial liabilities, which are not carried at fair value through profit or
loss in future periods.

147

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Trade accounts payable and other non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade accounts payable and other non-derivative financial liabilities are in general measured at
amortized cost using the effective interest method. Finance charges, including premiums payable on
redemption or settlement, are periodically accrued using the effective interest method and increase the
liabilities’ carrying amounts unless they have already been settled in the period in which they were
incurred.

Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss
The Group does not use the option to categorize financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
when initially recognized.

Financial liabilities held for trading
Derivatives that are not part of an effective hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 must be
classified as “held for trading” and thus carried at fair value through profit or loss. In the event of
negative fair values, such derivatives are recognized as “financial liabilities held for trading”.

Derivative financial instruments
The Group generally uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price risks arising from operational, financing and
investment activities. Derivatives are used generally to hedge existing or anticipated underlying
transactions. Such derivatives and so-called “embedded derivatives”, which are an integral part of a
non-derivative host contract and must be accounted for separately, are measured initially and
subsequently at fair value through profit or loss. Gains or losses due to fluctuations in fair value are
recognized immediately in profit or loss.
If derivatives are used to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows and to hedge balance sheet
items, the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting under IAS 39 if certain conditions are
met. This can reduce volatility in the income statement. There are three types of hedging relationships:
fair value hedge, cash flow hedge and hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In a fair value hedge, which is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or
liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, the hedging instrument is stated at fair value and any
changes in fair value are immediately recognized in profit or loss. Changes in fair value of a hedged
asset, liability or firm commitment, which are attributable to a particular hedged risk, are also
recognized in profit or loss. Given a perfect hedge, changes in fair value of the underlying and hedging
transactions are almost entirely offset. If the asset or liability is measured at amortized cost according
to general accounting guidelines, its carrying amount must be adjusted for the cumulative changes in
fair value resulting from the hedged risk. However, if the hedged item (e.g. available-for-sale security)

148

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

is recognized at fair value without influencing the income statement in accordance with the general
accounting guidelines, changes in fair value resulting from the hedged risk are recognized in profit or
loss, contrary to the general guidelines.
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognized
asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction, or foreign currency risk of a firm commitment.
The effective portion of the fluctuations in fair value is immediately recognized in equity. The effective
portion is reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same period during which the hedged
underlying transaction affects profit or loss. If a hedge subsequently results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset (e.g. property, plant and equipment or inventories), then the fluctuations in fair value
that were recognized in equity affect the value of the non-financial asset. When measuring the
effectiveness between the underlying hedged transaction and the hedging instrument the remaining
ineffective portion of the hedge and adjustments due to interest rate changes are immediately
recognized in the consolidated statement of income. In the case of currency risks, the effectiveness of
the hedging relationship is established by including changes in value due to spot rate changes as a
hedged risk and excluding the interest component.
When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the hedging relationship is
discontinued, but the forecast underlying transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or
loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognized in equity remains separately in equity until
the forecast transaction occurs. It is recognized in profit or loss as detailed above when the transaction
affects the income statement. If the hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, any
related cumulative unrealized gain or loss recognized in equity is recognized immediately in the
consolidated statement of income.
The Group mainly uses cash flow hedges to hedge its exposure to changes in foreign currency rates,
interest rates and commodity prices. In addition, the Group carries out hedging in accordance with the
basic principles of risk management under which existing risks are hedged economically, but the
hedges do not comply with the strict hedge accounting requirements under IAS 39. The Group does
not use hedge accounting for foreign currency derivatives that have been concluded to hedge foreign
currency risks arising from monetary balance sheet items. Thus, the effects from the foreign currency
conversion of balance sheet items recognized in profit or loss are offset against the fluctuations in fair
value of derivatives, which are also recognized in profit or loss.
Currently, the Group does not apply hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation.
More information about financial instruments is provided in Note 22.

149

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Deferred income taxes
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit as well as for unused tax losses or
credits. In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences and
deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
also recognized on temporary differences arising from business combinations except to the extent they
arise from goodwill that is not taken into account for tax purposes.
Deferred taxes are calculated at the enacted or substantially enacted tax rates that are expected to
apply when the asset or liability is settled. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement,
except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income in equity, in
which case the corresponding deferred tax is also recognized directly in equity.

Cumulative other comprehensive income
The equity line item “Cumulative other comprehensive income” includes changes in the equity of the
Group that were not recognized in the consolidated statement of income of the period, except those
resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners. Cumulative other comprehensive
income includes foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized holding gains and losses on
available-for-sale financial assets and on derivative financial instruments as well as the share of the
other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method.
Remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations are reported in retained earnings in the period
that they are recognized as other comprehensive income.

Accrued pension and similar obligations
The Group’s net obligation for defined benefit and other postretirement benefit plans have been
calculated for each plan using the projected unit credit method as of the balance sheet date. A
quarterly valuation of pensions and health care obligations is performed on the basis of updated
interest rates and fair values of plan assets.
As far as the fair value of plan assets related to pensions or similar obligations exceeds the
corresponding obligation, the recognition of an asset in respect to such surplus is limited. As far as in
connection with plan assets minimum funding requirements related to past service exist, an additional
liability may need to be recognized in case the economic benefit of a surplus – already taking into
account the contributions to be made in respect of the minimum funding requirements – is limited. The
limit is determined by unrecognized past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan (asset ceiling).
With the exception of net interest, all income and expenses related to defined benefit plans are
recognized in income from operations. Net interest included in net periodic pension cost is recognized
in net financial income/(expense) in the Group’s consolidated statement of income.

150

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The Group’s obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as expense in
income from operations as incurred.
The effects of remeasurements of pensions and similar obligations are recognized in other
comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. They consist of
actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets and changes in the effects of asset ceiling
excluding amounts already included in net interest. Deferred taxes relating to remeasurements are also
recognized in other comprehensive income.
The Group also maintains multi-employer plans. In principle, these multi-employer plans contain
defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans. With respect to defined benefit multiemployer plans these are accounted for in the same way as any other defined benefit plan in case the
required information is available. Otherwise these plans are accounted for as defined contribution
plans. In particular in the USA, Sweden and in the Netherlands, there exist multi-employer defined
benefit plans that are accounted for as defined contribution plans due to the fact that the pension
obligations and the plan assets cannot be assigned to the participating employers.

Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event which will
result in a probable outflow of economic benefits that can be reasonably estimated. The amount
recognized represents best estimate of the settlement amount of the present obligation as of the
balance sheet date. Expected reimbursements of third parties are not offset but recorded as a separate
asset if it is virtually certain that the reimbursements will be received. Where the effect of the time value
of money is material, provisions are discounted using a market rate.
A provision for warranties is recognized when the underlying products or services are sold. The
provision is based on historical warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their
associated probabilities.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognized when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the
restructuring and has notified the affected parties.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group
from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.

Share-based compensation
The Group has management incentive plans which grant stock rights to executive and senior
employees. The fair value of these rights is calculated on the date of grant and on each balance sheet
date and recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a
corresponding increase in provisions. Furthermore a portion of the variable compensation was granted
as share appreciation rights to the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG inclusive of fiscal
year 2013 / 2014 and was granted to additional selected executive employees inclusive of fiscal year

151

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

2014 / 2015. For both types of compensation, the provision is remeasured at each balance sheet date
and at settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the provision are recognized as part of income
from operations.
See also information provided in Note 14.

Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have
been transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Revenue from
services is recognized when services are rendered. No revenue is recognized if there are significant
uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods. Revenue is
recognized net of applicable provisions for discounts and allowances.
Construction contract revenue and expense are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion
method, which recognizes revenue as performance of the contract progresses. The contract progress is
determined based on the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated cost for each contract
after giving effect to the most recent estimates of total cost. If the construction takes a substantial
period of time, contract costs also include borrowing costs that are directly attributable.
Contracts where the Group provides engineering services are also accounted for like construction
contracts. Construction contracts under the percentage-of-completion method are measured at
construction cost plus profits earned based on the percentage of the contract completed. Revenues net
of advance payments received are recognized as trade accounts receivable in the balance sheet.
Variations in contract work and claims are included to the extent that it is probable that they will be
approved by the customer and the amount can be reliably measured. Reliably measurable incentive
payments are recognized if it is probable that the specified performance standards will be met or
exceeded.
Where the income of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue that is
probable to be recovered is recognized to the extent of contract costs incurred. Contract costs are
recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is
recognized as an expense immediately.
Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements, such as those including both goods and
services, are recognized as each element is earned based on objective evidence of the relative fair
value of each element.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the interest
rate applicable. Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders’ rights to
receive payment have been established.

152

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Government grants
Government grants are recognized only if there is reasonable assurance that the associated conditions
will be met and the grants will be received. Grants related to assets are reported as a reduction of cost
of the assets concerned with a corresponding reduction of depreciation and amortization in subsequent
periods. Grants related to income are stated as other operating income in the periods in which the
expenses intended to be compensated by the grant are recognized.

Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development costs, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of
new or substantially improved products and processes, are capitalized if the product or process is
technically and commercially feasible, it is intented to complete the intangible asset, there is a market
for the output of the intangible asset, the attributable expenditure can be measured reliably, and the
Group has sufficient resources to complete development. Other development costs are expensed as
incurred. Capitalized development costs of completed projects are stated at cost less accumulated
amortization and impairment losses. Costs include direct costs of material, direct labour, and allocable
material and manufacturing overhead. Borrowing costs directly attributable to a production of assets
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get the assets ready for their intended use, are
included in the cost of those assets until the assets are ready for their intended use. Administrative
costs are capitalized only if such costs are directly related to production. Capitalized development costs
of projects not yet completed are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently when an
indicator of impairment arises during the reporting year.

Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net income/(loss) attributable to
thyssenkrupp AG’s shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Shares sold
during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period
that they were outstanding.

Segment reporting
In accordance with the so-called management approach, segment reporting of the thyssenkrupp Group
is based on the internal organizational and reporting structure. The data used to determine the internal
key figures are derived from the IFRS consolidated financial statements.

Single assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations
A single non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. The Group reports assets and
liabilities as a disposal group, that will be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single transaction,
which collectively meet the held for sale criteria as specified in IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for
Sale and Discontinued Operations”. The Group reports the assets and liabilities of a disposal group
separately in the balance sheet line item “assets held for sale/disposal” and “liabilities associated with

153

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

assets held for sale/disposal”, respectively. Unless a disposal group qualifies for discontinued
operations reporting, the revenues and expenses of the disposal group remain within continuing
operations until the date of disposal. The Group reports the results of a disposal group that also
qualifies as a component of the Group as discontinued operations if it represents a separate major line
of business or geographical area of operations. The Group reports the results of discontinued
operations in the period in which they occur separately within the consolidated statement of income as
“discontinued operations (net of tax)”. All prior period consolidated statements of income are adjusted
to report the results of the component within discontinued operations. In the consolidated statement of
cash flows the cash flows resulting from discontinued operations are presented separately from cash
flows resulting from continuing operations; prior year presentation has been adjusted accordingly. In
order to present the proportion of income/loss attributable to discontinued operations, net sales and
expenses arising from intercompany transactions are recognized provided that these transactions will
not continue after the disposal of the discontinued operations.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets are recognized at the lower of the carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell and depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal group is
initially measured in line with the respective IFRS standards to determine the carrying amount of the
disposal group which is then compared to the fair value less costs to sell of the group in order to
recognize the group at the lower of both amounts. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for
sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement, but not in
excess of the cumulative impairment loss.

Financial statement classification
Certain line items on the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated statement of income have
been combined. These items are disclosed separately in the Notes to the consolidated financial
statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year presentation to conform to that
of the current year.
In general the Group classifies assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be realized or
settled within twelve months after the balance sheet date. Group companies that have operating cycles
longer than twelve months classify assets and liabilities as current if they are expected to be realized
within the company’s normal operating cycle.

Use of estimates
The preparation of the Group consolidated financial statements requires Management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.

154

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Accounting estimates and judgements made by Management in the application of IFRS that have a
significant effect on the consolidated financial statements are presented in Note 25.

Recently adopted accounting standards
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016, thyssenkrupp adopted the following amendments to already existing
standards:
In November 2013 the IASB issued narrow-scope amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits“ titled
“Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to IAS 19)“. The amendments are
applicable to recognizing contributions of employees or third parties to defined benefit plans. Hereby it
will be allowed to recognize employees’ or third parties’ contributions as a reduction of current service
costs in the period in which the corresponding servicing has been rendered if the contributions are
independent of the number of years of employee service. The amendments to IAS 19 are to be applied
for fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2014. In the context of the endorsement, the mandatory
effective date was deferred to fiscal years beginning on or after February 1, 2015; the option of an
earlier adoption had not been used by thyssenkrupp. The amendments do not have a material impact
on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
In December 2013 the IASB issued the annual improvements for the 2010 to 2012 cycle and for the
2011 to 2013 cycle as part of its annual improvement process project. In the context of the 2010 to
2012 cycle clarifications and smaller amendments of seven standards were published: IFRS 2 “Sharebased Payment“, IFRS 3 “Business Combinations“, IFRS 8 “Operating Segments“, IFRS 13 “Fair Value
Measurement“, IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment“, IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures“ and
IAS 38 “Intangible Assets“. In the context of the 2011 to 2013 cycle clarifications and smaller
amendments of four standards were published: IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of IFRS”, IFRS 3 “Business
Combinations“, IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement“ and IAS 40 “Investment Property“. The
amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2014. In the context of the
endorsement, the mandatory effective date was deferred – namely for the 2010 to 2012 cycle to fiscal
years beginning on or after February 1, 2015 and for the 2011 to 2013 cycle to fiscal years beginning
on or after January 1, 2015; the option of an earlier adoption had not been used by thyssenkrupp. The
amendments do not have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Issued accounting standards that have not been adopted in fiscal year 2015 / 2016
The following standards, interpretations and amendments of standards and interpretations have been
issued by the IASB. Their adoption has not been mandatory for 2015 / 2016 and must be endorsed
partially by the EU:
In July 2014 the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. The new version
includes revised requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and for the
first time regulations on the impairment of financial instruments; with the new “expected loss model”
losses are recognized earlier because both existing and expected losses are recognized. The new
regulations must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In general they

155

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

must be applied retrospectively, but various transition options are allowed; earlier application is
permitted. The EU has not yet endorsed the standard. Currently, Management is not able to finally
assess what impact adoption of the standard will have – if endorsed by the EU in the current version.
In May 2014 the IASB issued the new standard IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”.
The purpose of the new standard on revenue recognition is to bring together the large number of
existing guidelines contained in various standards and interpretations. At the same time it establishes
uniform core principles to be applied to all industries and all types of revenue transactions. A 5-step
model is used to determine at which point in time or over which period of time revenues are to be
recognized and in what amount. The standard also includes further detailed guidance and extended
disclosure requirements. Due to the amendment to IFRS 15 issued in September 2015, the mandatory
effective date was deferred from January 1, 2017 to fiscal years beginning on or after January 1,
2018. In general it must be applied retrospectively, but various transition options are allowed; earlier
application is permitted. In April 2016 clarifications to IFRS 15 were issued relating mainly to the
identification of separate performance obligations, the definition of principal and agent as well as the
recognition of income from licenses. The clarifications have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
In 2015 a Groupwide IFRS 15 implementation project was launched. The project has two phases:
Phase 1, which mainly related to the 2015 / 2016 fiscal year, involved an initial detailed analysis of the
impact of the rules of IFRS 15 at the level of the 14 business models identified in the business areas.
The results of the initial impact analysis were then verified at company level with reference to defined
contract types. Based on the contract analysis, a detailed concept was developed for the transition of
revenue recognition to the new rules of IFRS 15, also including the need for adjustments to existing IT
processes/systems. The subsequent Phase 2 of the project, mainly relating to the 2016 / 2017 fiscal
year, will serve particularly to implement the initial IT process/system adjustments identified in Phase 1
and to provide training for the Group companies in handling the new requirements of IFRS 15.
Based on the findings of the detailed analysis of IFRS 15 carried out in fiscal year 2015 / 2016, the
following key impacts were identified compared with the current revenue recognition:
■ For certain business models in the automotive supply business of the Components Technology

business area, the concretized definition of principal and agent in IFRS 15 based on the principle of
control will result in a significant and sustained reduction in reported revenue due to the extended
net presentation of agent revenue. At the same time this will have a positive impact on the reported
percentage sales margin (related to adjusted EBIT) of the Components Technology business area,
which would be 0.6 percentage points higher at the balance sheet date September 30, 2016.

156

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

■ When applying the IFRS 15 criteria for revenue recognition over time, revenue may be recognized

later in individual cases in the Industrial Solutions business area, which currently uses the
percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 11.
■ The requirement under IFRS 15 to identify separate performance obligations under certain

circumstances and the resultant allocation of the transaction price will impact the timing of revenue
recognition.
In the naval shipbuilding business of the Industrial Solutions business area, revenue will be deferred
in the event that options are granted on the future purchase of further products, which represent
“material rights” under IFRS 15 and must be treated as a separate performance obligation.
In addition, especially in the Materials Services business area, depending on the Incoterms agreed
with the individual customer separate performance obligations will have to be identified in
connection with the provision of transportation services.
■ The requirement under IFRS 15 to capitalize costs of obtaining a contract under certain

circumstances, in particular in the Industrial Solutions and Components Technology business areas,
will result in a balance sheet extension. Balance sheet extensions will also result from the recognition
of contract assets, i.e. receivables from customers, to which there is not yet any legal entitlement.
■ Impacts may result from the application of IFRS 9, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU, in

connection with the measurement of contract assets. In this context IFRS 9 provides for use of the
expected loss model rather than the incurred loss approach currently used.
The Group currently assumes that no use will be made of the option for early application of IFRS 15
before the start of the 2018 / 2019 fiscal year. The transition rules for IFRS 15 permit both a full
retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to initial application. Given that the detailed analysis
of the impact of IFRS 15 on the IT processes/systems is not yet fully complete, the Group expects to
decide on which alternative to use for retrospective initial application in the course of the 2016 / 2017
fiscal year.
In December 2014 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”. The
amendments mainly include clarifications regarding the judgment of materiality of disclosures,
explanations how to aggregate and disaggregate line items of the balance sheet and the statement of
comprehensive income, the order of the notes and the disclosure of significant accounting policies. The
amendments are to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; the option of an
earlier adoption had not been used by thyssenkrupp. Currently, Management expects the amendments
to have an impact on the Group’s presentation of the notes.

157

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In January 2016 the IASB issued the new standard IFRS 16 “Leases”, which is to replace the current
lease standard IAS 17. Central to the new standard is that the lessee must report all leases and
associated contractual rights and obligations on the balance sheet. The current requirement to
differentiate between finance leases and operating leases under IAS 17 will therefore no longer apply
for lessees. Under IFRS 16 for all leases the lessee must recognize a lease liability on the balance
sheet in the present value of future lease payments of the respective lease plus directly allocable costs
and at the same time recognize a corresponding right of use to the underlying asset. Over the term of
the lease, the lease liability is adjusted using financial mathematics methods – similar to the rules for
finance leases under the current IAS 17 – and the right of use is depreciated. The accounting for shortterm leases and leases of low-value assets has been simplified. For lessors, the rules of the new
standard are almost identical to those of IAS 17. Leases in which all material risks and opportunities
from the asset are transferred are classified as finance leases, all other leases as operating leases.
Application of the new standard is mandatory for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2019.
Earlier application is permitted as long as IFRS 15 is also applied. The EU has not yet endorsed the
standard. Currently, Management is not able to finally assess what impact adoption of the standard will
have – if endorsed by the EU in the current version.
In addition to the standards presented above in detail, the IASB has issued further standards,
interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations whose application is also not yet
mandatory and which in part require EU endorsement before they can be applied. Management
currently assumes that the application of these standards, interpretations and amendments will not
have a material impact on the presentation of the consolidated financial statements:
■ Amendments to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”: “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint

Operations“, issued in May 2014, initial application in fiscal year 2016 / 2017
■ Amendments to IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment” and IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”:

“Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation”, issued in May 2014, initial
application in fiscal year 2016 / 2017
■ Amendments to IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” and IAS 28 “Investments in

Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)”: “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture”, issued in September 2014, initial application deferred indefinitely
■ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014, initial application in

fiscal year 2016 / 2017
■ Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: “Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation

Exception”, issued in December 2014, initial application in fiscal year 2016 / 2017

158

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

■ Amendments to IAS 12 “Income Taxes”: “Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised

Losses”, issued in January 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal year
2017 / 2018
■ Amendments to IAS 7 “Statements of Cash Flows”: “Disclosure Initiative”, issued in January 2016,

not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal year 2017 / 2018
■ Amendments to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”: “Classification and Measurement of Share-based

Payment Transactions”, issued in June 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in fiscal
year 2018 / 2019
■ Amendments to IFRS 4 “Insurance contracts”: “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4

Insurance Contracts”, issued in September 2016, not yet endorsed, expected initial application in
fiscal year 2018 / 2019

02 Consolidated companies and equity interests
Composition of the scope of consolidation
The changes in the scope of consolidation in fiscal 2014 / 2015 and 2015 / 2016, respectively are
presented in the table below:

AC Q U I S I T I O N S / D I V E S T I T UR E S O F B U S I N E S S E S
Number of consolidated companies

Germany

Abroad

Total

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2014

146

401

547

Additions

1

13

14

Disposals

(16)

(48)

(64)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

497

131

366

Additions

–

1

1

Disposals

(9)

(18)

(27)

122

349

471

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

The addition in 2015 / 2016 results from a foundation, while 19 of the disposals result from the internal
merging of Group entities. To further details see “acquisitions and disposals” in this Note.
8 (prior year: 9) controlled subsidiaries are not consolidated because their combined influence on the
Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations is not material. Their net sales amount
to 0.02%, their income/(loss) before tax amounts to 0.04% and their total equity amounts to 0.02% of
the Group’s respective balances.

159

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The Group has 10 (prior year: 10) associated companies and 15 (prior year: 13) joint ventures that are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Another 8 (prior year: 11) associated companies
are not accounted for using the equity method of accounting because their combined influence on the
Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations is not material. The income before tax of
the immaterial associated companies amounts to 0.66% and their total equity to 0.49% of the Group’s
respective balances.
A complete listing of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests is published in the German Federal
Gazette and is available on the thyssenkrupp website at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests
Up until the acquisition of the minority interest held by Vale on May 31, 2016, Companhia Siderúrgica
do Atlantico (CSA), based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, was a subsidiary with material non-controlling
interests. The proportion of ownership interests held by non-controlling interests was 26.87%; it was
identical with the proportion of voting rights. In 2014 / 2015, a loss of €(102) million was allocated to
the non-controlling interests; no dividends were paid to the non-controlling interests of CSA in
2014 / 2015. As of September 30, 2015 the accumulated non-controlling interests of CSA in the
consolidated statement of financial position came to €(349) million. The following table contains the
summarized prior-year financial information for CSA:

F I N A N C I A L I NF O R M AT I O N CS A
Sept 30, 2015 /
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

million €

Total non-current assets

1,798

Total current assets

811

Total non-current liabilities

2,510

Total current liabilities

634

Net sales

1,558

Net income/(loss)

(379)

Total comprehensive income

(422)

Operating cash flows

(161)

Cash flows from investing activities

(84)

Cash flows from financing activities

320

The holders of the non-controlling interests in CSA had certain protective rights that prevented
thyssenkrupp from changing material operating and financial fundamentals of CSA without their
approval.

160

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

After a contract was signed with Vale at the beginning of April 2016 to acquire all minority shares
(26.97%) in CSA held by Vale for a symbolic purchase price in combination with an earn-out for the
event of a sale of CSA, the transaction was completed on May 31, 2016 after receipt of the necessary
approvals. thyssenkrupp is therefore the sole owner of CSA. The resulting changes to the equity of the
shareholders of thyssenkrupp AG and the non-controlling interests are as follows:

E Q U I T Y I M PAC T S R E S U LTI N G F R O M T HE F U L L CO N S OL I DAT I O N O F C S A
million €

Non-controlling interest in CSA as of Sept. 30, 2015

(349)

Pro rata income/(expense) October 2015 to May 2016

(80)

Pro rata other comprehensive income October 2015 to May 2016

4

Equity impact CSA

(425)

Cumulative non-controlling interest in thyssenkrupp Slab International (shareholder of CSA)
Change in equity attributable to thyssenkrupp AG's stockholders

(19)
(444)

thereof: changes in retained earnings

(453)

thereof: changes in cumulative other comprehensive income: foreign currency translation adjustment

9

Change in non-controlling interest

444

Change in total equity 2015 / 2016

0

Structured entities
thyssenkrupp includes 4 (prior year: 4) structured entities in the consolidated financial statements. One
of these structured entities is the operating company of a leased facility for the production of coke. This
operating company is the lessee under an operating lease, so liabilities from future minimum rental
payments are part of the commitments included in the consolidated financial statements. The
maximum loss risk to the Group from this facility is €61 million, resulting from the residual value
guarantee – mainly transferred to third parties – for the facility up to the end of the lease contract (cf.
Note 21). Another of the structured entities is a special purpose leasing company established to realize
the second construction phase of the thyssenkrupp Quarter. The lease object and the corresponding
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements. There are no obligations to provide
financial support. The two other structured entities do not have a material influence on the Group’s net
assets, financial position and results of operations.
thyssenkrupp also has contractual relationships with 6 (prior year: 6) non-controlled structured entities.
The Group holds a maximum 1% share in these entities. One of these entities is the owner company
and operating lessor of the coke production facility leased by the thyssenkrupp Group. Under factoring
programs, contractual relationships exist with a structured entity in which the company holds no
interests. The other non-controlled structured entities have supply or service contracts with individual
Group companies. Potential losses from these contracts are already included in the purchasing
commitments stated under commitments (cf. Note 21).

161

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Acquisitions and disposals
Year ended September 30, 2016
In the year ended September 30, 2016, the Group had only some smaller acquisitions in the form of
asset deals and some smaller disposals that were, on an individual basis and in total, immaterial.

Year ended September 30, 2015
In the year ended September 30, 2015, the Group consolidated the electrolysis joint venture
thyssenkrupp Uhde Chlorine Engineers as well as the Marohn Elevator Co. in Shanghai for the first time
and acquired additional smaller companies that are, on an individual basis, immaterial. Based on the
values as of the acquisition date, these acquisitions affected in total the Group’s consolidated financial
statements as presented below:

AC Q U I S I T I O NS
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

million €

Goodwill

93

Other intangible assets

96

Property, plant and equipment

32

Investments accounted for using the equity method

(6)

Other non-current non-financial assets

1

Deferred tax assets

20

Inventories

29

Trade accounts receivable

56

Other current financial assets

4

Other current non-financial assets

11

Current income tax assets

1

Cash and cash equivalents

103

Total assets acquired

440

Deferred tax liabilities

34

Other non-current financial liabilities

1

Other non-current non-financial liabilities

2

Other current provisions

14

Current income tax liabilities

1

Current financial debt

19

Trade accounts payable

57

Other current financial liabilities

5

Other current non-financial liabilities

65

Total liabilities assumed

198

Net assets acquired

242

Non-controlling interest

20

Purchase prices

222

Thereof: paid in cash and cash equivalents

72

Thereof: paid in equity instruments

69

162

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In addition, in the year ended September 30, 2015, the Group sold the RIP group and the VDM group
and additional smaller companies as part of the portfolio optimization that are, on an individual basis,
immaterial. Based on the values as of the disposal date, these disposals affected in total the Group’s
consolidated financial statements as presented below:

DISPOSALS
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

million €

Goodwill

29

Other intangible assets

5

Property, plant and equipment

56

Other non-current non-financial assets

1

Deferred tax assets

22

Inventories

418

Trade accounts receivable

260

Other current financial assets

82

Other current non-financial assets

28

Current income tax assets

5

Cash and cash equivalents

50

Total assets disposed of

956

Accrued pension and similar obligations

113

Other non-current provisions

30

Deferred tax liabilities

6

Other current provisions

14

Current income tax liabilities

3

Current financial debt

330

Trade accounts payable

138

Other current financial liabilities

32

Other current non-financial liabilities

48

Total liabilities disposed of

714

Net assets disposed of

242

Cumulative other comprehensive income

3

Non-controlling interest

(19)

Gain/(loss) resulting from the disposals

(5)

Selling prices

221

Thereof: paid in cash and cash equivalents

220

163

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

03 Disposal group and discontinued operation
Disposal group
At Corporate the sale was initiated at June 30, 2016 of a package of non-operation real estate located
in Germany which was classified as a disposal group under IFRS 5 and reported under “Assets held for
Sale” in the statement of financial position. As of September 30, 2016 the group comprises investment
property in the amount of €63 million and inventories in the amount of €2 million. Measurement of the
disposal group at fair value less cost to sell resulted in impairment losses of €5 million on investment
property which are recognized in cost of sales.

Discontinued operation: former Stainless Global business area
The former Stainless Global business area was classified as a discontinued operation until December
28, 2012. Income and expense incurred after the disposal but directly related to the disposal of
Stainless Global also has to be presented as income from discontinued operations in the income
statement. Thus disposal related expense in the amount of €11 million incurred in the year ended
September 30, 2015 mainly resulting from compensation payments in connection with personnel
measures.

164

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Notes to the consolidated statement of financial position
04 Intangible assets
Changes in the Group’s intangible assets were as follows:

C H A N G E S I N I N TA N G I B L E A S S E T S

million €

Franchises, trademarks and
similar rights and values as
well as licenses thereto

Development costs,
internally developed
software and website

Goodwill

Total

Gross amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014

1,622

631

4,188

6,441

Currency differences

32

31

123

186

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

35

(13)

69

91

Additions

60

45

6

111

Transfers

16

16

(1)

31

Disposals

(29)

(2)

0

(31)

1,736

708

4,385

6,829

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015
Currency differences

0

1

23

25

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

7

(13)

(3)

(8)

Additions

78

54

0

132

Transfers

39

15

7

62

Disposals

(16)

(8)

(1)

(25)

1,845

757

4,413

7,015

1,087

433

607

2,127

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Accumulated amortization and impairment losses
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014
Currency differences

23

20

38

81

(44)

(14)

0

(58)

Amortization expense

94

41

0

135

Impairment losses

26

14

0

40

Reversals of impairment losses

0

0

0

0

Transfers

1

0

0

1

Disposals

(26)

0

0

(26)

1,161

494

645

2,300

3

1

1

4

3

(8)

0

(6)

84

41

0

125

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015
Currency differences
Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses
Amortization expense
Impairment losses

5

3

0

8

Reversals of impairment losses

0

0

0

0

Transfers

32

0

4

36

Disposals

(15)

(8)

0

(23)

1,273

522

650

2,445

Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014

535

198

3,581

4,314

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

575

214

3,740

4,529

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

573

235

3,763

4,570

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Net amounts

165

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill impairment losses are included in other expenses.

Impairment of other intangible assets
Impairment losses of intangible assets other than goodwill are included in cost of sales.
In the 2nd quarter ended March 31, 2015 in the Materials Services business area the disposal of the VDM
group was initiated and in the 4th quarter ended September 30, 2015 the disposal was consummated. In
the context of the initiated disposal an impairment loss of €21 million on other intangible assets was
recognized in accordance with IFRS 5. Due to the fact that the disposal group presentation was only
during the fiscal year these impairments are included in the line item “impairment losses” in the above
presented changes in intangible assets. €10 million of the total impairment relates to franchises,
trademarks and similar rights and €11 million to development costs. The total impairment losses of
€21 million were recognized in cost of sales. At the same time a deferred tax asset of €7 million was
recognized.

Goodwill
Goodwill (excluding goodwill of equity method investments) has been allocated to cash generating
units (CGU) of all business areas. The recoverable amount of each cash generating unit is determined
based on a value in use calculation using after-tax cash flow projections based on bottom-up prepared
financial budgets approved by thyssenkrupp AG’s management covering a three-year period. The last
budget year is generally used to determine the cash flows beyond the budget period and modified to
calculate the perpetuity considering additional assumptions. A business specific, sustained growth rate
is taken into account; as a rule this growth rate amounts to 1.5%. The weighted average cost of capital
discount rate is based on a risk-free interest rate of 0.5% (prior year: 1.5%) and a market risk premium
of 6.5% (prior year: 6.0%). Moreover for each CGU the beta, the cost of debt and the capital structure
is derived individually from the relevant peer group. In addition CGU specific tax rates and country risk
premiums are used. To discount cash flows after-tax discount rates are applied. Based on an iterative
calculation the following pre-tax discount rates are derived from the after-tax discount rates:

P R E -TA X D I S CO U N T R ATE S
Ranges
in %

Components Technology

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

9.3 – 11.8

8.4 – 11.2

Elevator Technology

8.7 – 12.0

9.7 – 12.4

Industrial Solutions

9.0 – 13.1

7.4 – 11.2

Materials Services

6.4 – 9.8

5.1 – 10.2

Steel Europe

8.8

7.0

Corporate

9.8

10.4

166

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The values in use for the CGUs are determined based on both historical data and expected forecast
market performance. The values assigned to the key assumptions are generally consistent with
external information sources.
23 CGUs were identified in the thyssenkrupp Group, of which 17 report goodwill. Total goodwill
amounts to €3,763 million as of September 30, 2016. 69% of this goodwill relates to the CGUs Steel
Europe, Americas, Europe / Africa and Marine Systems, as shown in the following table:

S I G NI F I C A N T G O O DW I L L
Carrying amount
of goodwill
allocated to CGU
in million €

Proportion
of total
goodwill
in %

Pre-tax
discount rate
in %

Steel Europe
(Steel Europe)

307

8%

7.0%

Americas
(Elevator
Technology)

993

27%

10.0%

Europe / Africa
(Elevator
Technology)

346

9%

Marine Systems
(Industrial
Solutions)

948

25%

CGU (Business Area)

Growth
rate Description of key assumptions of
in % budgeting

Procedure used to determine key assumptions

Internal estimates of sales and purchasing departments
1.5% – Selling prices –
concerned and consideration of economic assumptions
Procurement prices –
Production and sales volumes set by thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies
– Business cycles
1.4% – Procurement prices –
Exchange rates and interest
rates

Consideration of economic assumptions set by
thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies

9.7%

1.5% – Market growth rates –
Business cycles

Consideration of economic assumptions set by
thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies as well as
deduction of future demand and propensity to invest from
the current development of end-product prices

7.4%

1.5% – Market growth rates
– Realization of scheduled
measures

Consideration of long-term budget plans of potential
customers and if appropriate concrete negotiations with
customers

For none of the CGUs a goodwill impairment resulted from the annual impairment test because the
recoverable amount of all CGUs was higher than the respective carrying amount. The recoverable
amount of the Forging & Machining CGU exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU by less than 10%.

C R I TI C A L G OO DW I L L

CGU (Business Area)

Forging &
Machining
(Components
Technology)

Carrying amount
Carrying
of goodwill amount of
allocated to CGU
CGU
in million € in million €

68

556

Recoverable
amount of
CGU
in million €

576

Pre-tax
discount
rate Description of key assumptions of
in % budgeting

10.0% – Market growth rates
Utilised capacity of plants
– Realization of scheduled
measures
– Exchange rates

Procedure used to determine key assumptions

Internal estimates of sales and purchasing departments
concerned and consideration of economic assumptions
set by thyssenkrupp AG and external market studies

An increase of the after-tax discount rate by 1%-point would result in a goodwill impairment of €55
million. A reduction of the income/(loss) from operations (according to the statement of income)
assumed in the calculation of the perpetuity would lead to a goodwill impairment of €32 million. A
decrease of the sustained growth rate within the perpetuity by 0.5%-point would result in a goodwill
impairment of €12 million.

167

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

05 Property, plant and equipment
Changes in the Group’s property, plant and equipment were as follows:

C H A N G E S I N P R O P E R T Y , PL A N T A N D E QU I P M E N T

million €

Land, leasehold rights
and buildings including
buildings on
third-party land

Other
Technical
equipment,
machinery and
factory and
equipment office equipment

Assets under
finance lease

Assets under
operating lease

Construction in
progress

Total

31,799

Gross amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014

5,921

22,943

2,131

166

0

638

Currency differences

117

817

5

3

0

11

953

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

(93)

(256)

(104)

(3)

4

8

(444)

Additions

66

310

136

3

1

453

969

Transfers

64

347

22

6

0

(375)

64

Disposals

(47)

(183)

(100)

(36)

0

(4)

(370)
32,971

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

6,028

23,978

2,090

139

5

731

Currency differences

15

62

1

0

0

0

80

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

28

0

1

(6)

0

2

25

Additions

51

320

130

1

0

613

1,115

Transfers

89

323

58

(1)

0

(446)

24

Disposals

(31)

(181)

(76)

(7)

0

(2)

(297)

Reclassification due to the presentation as
assets held for sale

(7)

(1)

0

0

0

0

(8)

6,173

24,500

2,203

127

6

898

33,908

3,362

17,936

1,674

100

0

8

23,080

78

622

3

2

0

0

705

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

(84)

(248)

(93)

(2)

0

(4)

(431)

Depreciation expense

127

766

148

10

0

0

1,051

59

87

15

1

0

5

167

Reversals of impairment losses

0

(2)

0

0

0

0

(2)

Transfers

5

0

(16)

(1)

0

1

(11)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016
Accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014
Currency differences

Impairment losses

Disposals
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015
Currency differences
Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses
Depreciation expense
Impairment losses
Reversals of impairment losses

(26)

(173)

(87)

(30)

0

0

(316)

3,521

18,988

1,644

80

0

10

24,243
59

6

52

1

0

0

0

13

(6)

0

1

0

2

9

125

758

146

9

0

0

1,039

12

59

7

1

0

1

80

0

(7)

0

0

0

0

(7)

Transfers

(21)

(81)

(4)

(1)

0

(5)

(111)

Disposals

(20)

(173)

(72)

(7)

0

(1)

(272)

Reclassification due to the presentation as
assets held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

(3)

(1)

0

0

0

0

(5)

3,631

19,589

1,723

84

1

7

25,036

Net amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014

2,559

5,007

457

66

0

630

8,719

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

2,507

4,990

446

59

5

721

8,728

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

2,541

4,911

480

43

4

891

8,872

Impairment losses of property, plant and equipment are for the most part included in cost of sales and
to a minor extent in selling and administrative expenses.

168

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In the US and German Forging & Machining businesses of the Components Technology business area,
impairment losses in the total amount of €46 million were recognized on technical machinery and
equipment in 2015 / 2016 to adjust capacities to the weak market situation. The relevant recoverable
amounts used to determine the impairment loss in each case correspond to the respective values in
use (USA: €45 million; Germany: slightly negative), which were determined applying a discount rate
(after taxes) of 7.7% in the USA and 6.6% in Germany.
In the 2nd quarter ended March 31, 2015 in the Materials Services business area the disposal of the
VDM group was initiated and in the 4th quarter ended September 30, 2015 the disposal was
consummated. In the context of the initiated disposal an impairment loss of €153 million on property,
plant and equipment was recognized in accordance with IFRS 5. Due to the fact that the disposal group
presentation was only during the fiscal year these impairments are included in the line item
“impairment losses” in the above presented changes in property, plant and equipment. €56 million of
the total impairment relates to land and buildings, €77 million to technical machinery and equipment,
€15 million to other equipment, factory and office equipment, €1 million to assets under finance lease
and €4 million to construction in progress. The total impairment losses of €153 million were recognized
in cost of sales. At the same time a deferred tax asset of €48 million was recognized.
Property, plant and equipment include leased buildings, technical machinery and equipment and other
equipment that have been capitalized, where the terms of the lease require the Group, as lessee, to
assume substantially all of the benefits and risks of use of the leased asset (finance lease).

A S S E T S U N DE R FI N A N CE LE A S E
Accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses

Gross amounts
million €

Net amounts

Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Land, leasehold rights and buildings including buildings on third-party land

56

50

18

20

38

29

Technical machinery and equipment

58

52

43

43

15

9

Other equipment, factory and office equipment
Total

25

25

19

21

6

4

139

127

80

84

59

43

Property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for financial debt of €194 million (prior
year: €213 million).

169

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

06 Investment property
Changes in the Group’s investment property were as follows:

INVESTMENT PROPERTY
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Gross amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014 and Sept. 30,2015, respectively

420

351

Currency differences

0

0

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

0

Additions

0

0

Transfers

11

0

Disposals

(80)

(18)

0

(204)

351

128

137

112

Currency differences

0

0

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

0

Depreciation expense

1

1

Impairment losses

2

7

Reversals of impairment losses

0

0

Transfers

7

0

Disposals

(35)

(10)

0

(48)

112

61

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015 and Sept. 30,2016, respectively
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014 and Sept. 30,2015, respectively

Reclassification due to the presentation as assets held for sale
Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015 and Sept. 30,2016, respectively
Net amounts
Balance as of Oct. 1, 2014

283

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015 and Sept. 30,2016, respectively

239

66

The fair value of the Group’s investment property is determined using various internationally accepted
valuation methods such as the gross rental method, discounted cash flow method, asset value method
and comparison to current market prices of similar real estate. Investment property located in Germany
is primarily determined based on internally prepared valuations using the gross rental method which is
regulated in Germany by the “Verordnung über Grundsätze für die Ermittlung der Verkehrswerte von
Grundstücken – WertV”. Investment property located outside Germany is generally determined by
external appraisers.

170

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

As of September 30, 2016, the total fair value of the Group’s investment property is €81 million (prior
year: €303 million); thereof €28 million (prior year: €51 million) are assigned to level 2 and €53 million
(prior year: €252 million) are assigned to level 3 valuations methods of the fair value hierarchy. Of the
fair value €22 million (prior year: €20 million) are based on valuations of external appraisers.
As in the prior year additions which are disclosed in the gross amounts do not include any subsequent
expenditure.
The lease of investment property resulted in rental income of €7 million (prior year: €12 million) and
direct operating expense of €4 million (prior year: €4 million). Direct operating expense of €5 million
(prior year: €7 million) resulted from investment property that does not generate rental income.

07 Investments accounted for using the equity method
The investments accounted for using the equity method are, on an individual basis, immaterial. As of
September 30, 2016, the carrying amount of associates is €41 million (prior year: €36 million) and of
joint ventures is €244 million (prior year: €267 million).
Summarized financial information of immaterial investments accounted for using the equity method is
presented in the table below. The information given represents the Group’s interest:

S U M M A R I ZE D F I N A N CI A L I N F O R M ATI O N O F I N V E S T ME N T S
ACCO U N T E D F O R U S I N G TH E E Q U I T Y ME T H O D
Associates
million €

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)

Joint ventures

Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

(19)

(26)

30

37

0

0

0

0

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income

1

0

6

(2)

(18)

(26)

36

35

In 2015 / 2016, the unrecognized share of losses of associates and joint ventures accounted for using
the equity method was €2 million (prior year: €24 million). There were cumulative unrecognized losses
of €46 million (prior year: €44 million).
The associates and joint ventures are included in the list of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity
interests that is published in the German Federal Gazette and is available on the thyssenkrupp website
at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

171

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

08 Operating lease as lessor
The Group is the lessor of various commercial real estates under operating lease agreements.
As of September 30, the future minimum lease payments to be received on non-cancellable operating
leases are as follows:

F U T U R E M I N I M U M L E A S E PAY M E N T S
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

14

10

Between one and five years

19

15

Later than five years

22

29

Total

55

53

Not later than one year

The amounts reflected as future minimum lease payments do not contain any contingent rentals. No
contingent rentals have been recognized in the consolidated statements of income in 2015 / 2016 and
in 2014 / 2015, respectively.

09 Inventories
I N V E N TOR I E S
million €

Raw materials
Supplies
Work in process

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

1,556

1,435

524

478

1,524

1,377

Finished products, merchandise

3,341

3,052

Total

6,945

6,341

Inventories of €12 million (prior year: €23 million) have a remaining term of more than one year.
Inventories of €32,637 million (prior year: €35,904 million) are recognized as cost of sales during the
period. Included in cost of sales are write-downs of inventories of €146 million (prior year: €87 million).

10 Trade accounts receivable
T R A D E ACCOU N T S R E C E I VA B L E
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Trade accounts receivable (excluding construction work)

4,055

4,023

Amounts due from customers for construction work

1,063

980

Total

5,118

5,003

172

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Receivables from the sales of goods and services in the amount of €290 million (prior year: €238
million) have a remaining term of more than one year. As of September 30, 2016 cumulative
impairment losses of €355 million (prior year: €390 million) are recognized for doubtful accounts.
As of the reporting date trade accounts receivable were as follows:

A N A LYS I S O F S T R U C T U R E
Carrying amount

thereof:

thereof: not impaired but past due as of balance sheet date

Trade accounts
receivable

neither impaired
nor past due as of
balance sheet date

past due
up to 30 days

past due
31 to 60 days

Sept. 30, 2015

5,118

4,182

346

120

69

Sept. 30, 2016

5,003

4,108

315

113

77

million €

thereof:

past due
past due
61 to 90 days 91 to 180 days

past due 181
to 360 days

past due more
than 360 days

impaired as of
balance sheet date

125

80

44

152

111

76

53

150

Amounts due from customers for construction work are calculated as follows:

R E CE I VA B LE S F O R CO N S TR U C T I O N W OR K
million €

Contract costs incurred and recognized contract profits (less recognized losses)
less advance payments received
Total

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

4,822

5,763

(3,759)

(4,784)

1,063

980

Advanced payments received are collateralized by assets of €0 million (prior year: €246 million). Sales
from construction contracts of €8,630 million were recognized in the period (prior year: €9,155
million).
The Group primarily sells credit insured trade accounts receivable under existing programs on a
revolving basis as well as under one-time transactions.
The amount of receivables sold and derecognized from the balance sheet as of September 30, 2016,
was €237 million (prior year: €226 million), resulting in net proceeds in the amount of €236 million
(prior year: €224 million). In some cases, when the Group sells receivables it retains rights and
immaterial obligations; these retained interests mainly consist of servicing as well as providing limited
cash reserve accounts. The recognized assets and provided guarantees which serve as a cash reserve
account amounted to €0.1 million (prior year: €0.3 million) as of September 30, 2016.

173

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

11 Other financial assets
OT H E R F I N A N C I A L A S S E T S
Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

current

non-current

current

non-current

238

17

308

16

5

30

6

28

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting

58

–

60

–

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

18

–

33

–

319

47

407

44

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets

Total

Other financial assets in the amount of €56 million (prior year: €54 million) have a remaining term of
more than one year. As of September 30, 2016 cumulative impairments amount to €16 million (prior
year: €18 million) regarding current other financial assets and €62 million (prior year: €71 million)
regarding non-current other financial assets.
As of the reporting date other financial assets were as follows:

A N A LYS I S O F S T R U C T U R E
Carrying amount

thereof:

thereof: not impaired but past due as of balance sheet date

Other financial assets

neither impaired
nor past due as of
balance sheet date

past due
up to 30 days

past due
31 to 60 days

Sept. 30, 2015

366

361

1

1

1

Sept. 30, 2016

451

450

0

0

0

million €

thereof:

past due
past due
61 to 90 days 91 to 180 days

past due 181
to 360 days

past due more
than 360 days

impaired as of
balance sheet date

1

0

0

1

0

1

0

0

12 Other non-financial assets
OT H E R NO N - FI N A N CI A L A SS E T S
Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

current

non-current

current

Advance payments on intangible assets

–

46

–

41

Advance payments on property, plant and equipment

–

214

–

169
–

Advance payments to suppliers of inventories and to other current
non-financial assets

non-current

1,437

–

1,605

Prepayments

157

–

101

–

Miscellaneous

803

83

670

234

2,397

343

2,376

445

Total

174

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Other non-financial assets in the amount of €879 million (prior year: €343 million) have a remaining
term of more than one year. As of September 30, 2016 cumulative impairments amount to €26 million
(prior year: €22 million) regarding current other non-financial assets and €258 million (prior year: €257
million) regarding non-current other non-financial assets.

13 Total equity
Capital stock
The capital stock of thyssenkrupp AG consists of 565,937,947 no-par bearer shares of stock, all of
which have been issued and are fully paid, with 565,937,947 outstanding as of September 30, 2016
and 2015, respectively. Each share of common stock has a stated value of €2.56.
All shares grant the same rights. The stockholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are
entitled to one vote per share at the stockholders’ meetings.

Additional paid-in capital
Additional paid-in capital include the effects of the business combination of Thyssen and Krupp as well
as premiums resulting from capital increases at subsidiaries with non-controlling interest.

Retained earnings
Retained earnings include prior years’ undistributed consolidated income. In addition, this line item
includes the remeasurement effects of pensions and similar obligations.

Management of capital
As of September 30, 2016 the Group's equity ratio was 7.4% (prior year: 9.3%) and its gearing was
134.2% (prior year: 103.2%). As in the previous year, the gearing agreed upon was met as of
September 30, 2016. Among the thyssenkrupp Group’s most important financial goals are a
sustainable appreciation of entity value and ensuring solvency at all times. Creating sufficient liquidity
reserves is therefore of great importance.
The thyssenkrupp Group’s financial risks are assessed on the basis of ratings by rating agencies:

R AT I N G
Long-term rating

Short-term rating

BB

B

stable

Moody’s

Ba2

Not Prime

stable

Fitch

BB+

B

stable

Standard & Poor’s

175

Outlook

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In February 2016 Moody’s downgraded our rating to Ba2 with stable outlook. As a result, all ratings are
currently below investment grade with stable outlook. Achieving investment grade status with all rating
agencies is a major priority for thyssenkrupp. For the financing of the thyssenkrupp Group, an
investment grade rating in the "BBB" range leads to an optimum of capital costs. But even in the
current rating situation, thyssenkrupp was able to demonstrate its access to a broad investor base by
issuing a bond in the total amount of €850 million (March 2016) on favorable conditions. Capital
management at thyssenkrupp is based on debt ratios published by rating agencies, which measure
cash-flow-to-debt ratios for a specific period. thyssenkrupp is not subject to capital requirements under
its articles of association.

Authorizations
Through resolution of the Annual General Meeting of January 30, 2015, the Executive Board of
thyssenkrupp AG is authorized until January 29, 2020 to acquire treasury shares up to a total of 10%
of the capital stock at the time of the resolution or – if lower – at the time the authorization is exercised
and use them for the purposes expressly stated in the authorization resolution and for all legally
permissible purposes. The Executive Board is authorized under certain circumstances to exclude
shareholders’ tender rights when purchasing treasury shares or subscription rights when using
treasury shares. The resolution also includes authorization to use equity derivatives (put or call options
or a combination of both) in connection with the purchase of treasury shares and to exclude tender and
subscription rights. The Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG may determine that measures of the
Executive Board under these shareholder resolutions are subject to its approval.
The following authorizations were issued by resolution of the Annual General Meeting on January 17,
2014:
In revocation of the partly used authorization to increase the capital stock issued by the Annual General
Meeting on January 20, 2012, the Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock on one or more occasions on or before January 16,
2019 by up to €370 million by issuing up to 144,531,250 new no-par bearer shares in exchange for
cash and/or contributions in kind (authorized capital). The shareholders are in principle entitled to
subscription rights. However, the Executive Board is authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory
Board, to exclude shareholder subscription rights in certain cases; the option of excluding subscription
rights is limited to 20% of the capital stock. § 5, par. 5 of the Articles of Association of
thyssenkrupp AG has been reworded accordingly.
The Executive Board was authorized, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue once or
several times bearer of registered warrant and/or convertible bonds in the total par value of up to
€2 billion with or without limited terms, and to grant to or impose on the holders or creditors of
convertible bonds conversion rights or obligations for no-par bearer shares of thyssenkrupp AG with a
total share of the capital stock up to €250 million in accordance with the conditions of these bonds.
The authorization is valid until January 16, 2019. The Executive Board is authorized, subject to the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights in certain cases.

176

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Furthermore, the Executive Board was authorized to conditionally increase the capital stock by up to
€250 million by issue of up to 97,626,250 new no-par bearer shares (conditional capital). The
conditional capital increase serves the granting of no-par bearer shares upon exercise of conversion or
option rights, upon fulfilment of corresponding conversion obligations or upon exercise of an option of
the thyssenkrupp AG to grant no-par shares of the thyssenkrupp AG in whole or in part instead of
payment of the cash amount due to the holders or creditors of convertible or warrant bonds that are
issued by thyssenkrupp AG or a subordinate Group company against cash contribution on or before
January 16, 2019 as a result of the authorization resolution passed by the Annual General Meeting on
January 17, 2014. New shares are issued at the option or conversion price to be determined in each
case according to the above mentioned authorization resolution. A new paragraph 6 has been inserted
in § 5 of the Articles of Association of thyssenkrupp AG.

Dividend
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board have agreed to propose to the Annual General Meeting a
dividend in the amount of €0.15 per share entitled to dividend to be distributed from unappropriated
net income of the stand-alone entity thyssenkrupp AG for fiscal year 2015 / 2016 as determined in
conformity with the principles of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and to carry forward the
remaining net income. This would result in a dividend payout of €85 million in total. A dividend of
€0.15 was paid for fiscal year 2014 / 2015 (2013 / 2014: €0.11).

14 Share-based compensation
Management incentive plans
As a long-term oriented compensation component, in fiscal year 2010 / 2011 the long-term incentive
plan (LTI) was implemented which issues stock rights to eligible participants. In fiscal year 2014 / 2015
the LTI plan design was slightly modified. Plan participants are Executive Board members and several
other selected executive employees. As of September 30, 2016, 1,677,529 stock rights were issued in
the 4th installment, 2,058,724 stock rights in the 5th installment and 2,581,453 stock rights in the 6th
installment of the LTI.
For installments of the LTI granted inclusive of fiscal year 2013 / 2014, the number of stock rights
issued based on individually fixed euro amounts will be adjusted at the end of each three-year tkVA
performance period based on the average thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA) over this period, beginning
October 1 of the year the stock rights were granted, compared to the average tkVA over the previous
three fiscal year period. For the installments of the LTI granted beginning with fiscal year 2014 / 2015
(5th and 6th installments) the number of stock rights issued will be adjusted at the end of the
respective three-year tkVA performance period based on the average tkVA over this period compared
with a tkVA target value set in advance. The amount of payment for an installment is calculated by
multiplying the adjusted number of stock rights by the average price of thyssenkrupp’s stock in the first
three months after the end of the tkVA performance period, with the result that the term of each
installment extends over four fiscal years in total.
To determine the fair value of the stock rights used to calculate the pro-rata liability as of the balance
sheet date forward prices of the thyssenkrupp stock are calculated taking into account the existing
caps. The forward calculation is carried out for predefined periods (averaging periods) taking into
account the thyssenkrupp stock price and the Euro interest rate curve as of the balance sheet date and
the dividends assumed to be paid until the maturity of the stock rights. The following assumptions were

177

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

used for the determination of the fair values as of September 30, 2015 and as of September 30, 2016,
respectively:

I N C E N T I V E P L A N S – Y E AR E N D E D S E P T. 30 , 2 0 1 5
Maturity
Averaging period
thyssenkrupp stock price as of balance sheet date

3rd installment LTI

4th installment LTI

5th installment LTI

Dec. 31, 2015

Dec. 31, 2016

Dec. 31, 2017

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2015 Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2016 Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2017
€15.68

€15.68

€0.11 on Feb. 1, 2016
– €0.11 on Feb. 1, 2016 €0.26 on Jan. 30, 2017

Assumed dividend payment(s) per stock until maturity
Average dividend yield
Average interest rate (averaging period)

€15.68

–

0.63%

1.13%

(0.09)%

0.03%

0.06%

Fair value as of Sept. 30, 2015
– without caps

€15.68

€15.57

€15.30

– with caps

€15.68

€15.57

€15.30

4th installment LTI

5th installment LTI

6th installment LTI

Dec. 31, 2016

Dec. 31, 2017

Dec. 31, 2018

I N C E N T I V E P L A N S – Y E AR E N D E D S E P T. 30 , 2 0 1 6
Maturity
Averaging period
thyssenkrupp stock price as of balance sheet date
Assumed dividend payment(s) per stock until maturity
Average dividend yield
Average interest rate (averaging period)

Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2016 Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2017 Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 2018
€21.22

€21.22

€21.22

€0.15 on Jan. 30, 2017
– €0.15 on Jan. 30, 2017 €0.15 on Jan. 29, 2018
–

0.64%

0.68%

(0.36)%

(0.21)%

(0.22)%

Fair value as of Sept. 30, 2016
– without caps

€21.23

€21.08

€20.92

– with caps

€19.99

€21.08

€20.92

In the 2nd quarter of 2015 / 2016, the 3rd installment of the LTI was settled with a payment of €18.23
per stock right and a payment of €63.4 million in total, respectively. In the 2nd quarter of 2014 / 2015,
the 2nd installment of the LTI was settled with a payment of €19.86 per stock right and a payment of
€21.9 million in total, respectively. Also in fiscal 2015 / 2016 the 6th installment of the LTI was granted
to the Executive Board and additional executive employees. In total in fiscal year 2015 / 2016 the Group
recorded an expense of €89 million from the obligations of the incentive plans (prior year: €31 million).
The liability arising from the LTI amounts to €144 million as of September 30, 2016 (prior year: €119
million).
For fiscal years 2009 / 2010 until 2013 / 2014, 25% of the performance bonus granted to the Executive
Board members of thyssenkrupp AG for each fiscal year was compulsorily converted into
thyssenkrupp AG stock rights to be paid out after a three-year lock-up period. The number of stock
rights was calculated by dividing 25% of the performance bonus by the average thyssenkrupp share

178

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

price in the 4th quarter of the fiscal year for which the performance bonus is granted. After expiration
of three fiscal years, the payout amount is calculated by multiplying the number of stock rights by the
average thyssenkrupp share price in the 4th quarter of the 3rd fiscal year. In addition, for each stock
right the dividend amount which would have been paid for these three fiscal years per share is also
paid out. Insofar as the Executive Board members of thyssenkrupp AG were granted an additional
bonus alongside the performance bonus, as in fiscal years 2009 / 2010 until 2013 / 2014, 55% of this
additional bonus was also converted into stock rights and treated in accordance with the performance
bonus model. In fiscal 2010 / 2011 the structure of the variable compensation for additional executive
employees was also modified. 20% of the performance bonus granted for the respective fiscal year will
be obligatorily converted into thyssenkrupp AG stock rights to be paid out after the expiration of three
fiscal years based on the average thyssenkrupp share price in the 4th quarter of the 3rd fiscal year.
Effective as of fiscal 2014 / 2015, the compensation system of the Executive Board members of
thyssenkrupp AG has been adjusted in such a way that stock rights are no longer granted for a portion
of the current variable compensation. For further selected executives this was the last conversion into
stock rights, which was finally discontinued from fiscal year 2015 / 2016. In 2015 / 2016 the Group
recorded expenses of €3 million (prior year: 0) associated with this compensation component; the
resultant obligation as of September 30, 2016 amounts to €12 million (prior year: €13 million). In
2015 / 2016 a payment of €3 million occurred relating to the stock rights granted in 2011 / 2012 (prior
year: €2 million).

Employee share purchase program
In fiscal years 2014 / 2015 and 2015 / 2016 the employee share purchase program was not offered.

15 Accrued pension and similar obligations
ACC R UE D PE N S I O N A ND SI M I L AR OB L I G AT I O N S
million €

Accrued pension obligations
Partial retirement
Other accrued pension-related obligations
Total

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

7,445

8,534

163

178

46

43

7,654

8,754

Accured pension liability
The Group maintains defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that mainly cover
employees in Germany, the USA, Great Britain and Liechtenstein and represent approx. 95% of the
thyssenkrupp Group’s total pension obligations, so the information below mainly applies to the abovementioned countries. In some other countries, eligible employees also receive benefits in accordance
with the respective local requirements.
For historical reasons a wide variety of voluntary defined benefit pension plans (DB plans) exist in
Germany based on different risk profiles. As a rule they provide benefits in the event of invalidity and/or
death or on reaching a specified age limit, and are based exclusively on individual or collective
arrangements. In Germany there is no legal requirement to provide employer-funded pension benefits.

179

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In the past the mostly employer-funded pension plans in Germany generally provided a life-long
pension based on defined benefits. For the most part benefits were defined according to an employee’s
length of service and final pay or based on career-average earnings or a fixed amount. In addition
benefits were indexed to inflation. Because such pension plans were partly closed many years ago,
they mainly cover terminated employees with vested pension rights and pensioners. For new
employees coming into the Group, these pension plans are no longer available.
In contrast, the pension plans introduced at thyssenkrupp in Germany at the end of the 1990s and
start of the new millennium and currently open to new employees are defined-contribution pension
plans with a risk-optimized payout form. Benefits are paid either as a lump-sum or in installments or in
the form of a life-long pension, though this is subject to a lower-risk fixed cost-of-living adjustment of
1% p.a. In addition, all employees have the option of participating in defined-contribution deferredcompensation pension plans in the form of direct insurance or direct pension commitments so that the
employee bears a much greater responsibility for making adequate provision for old age. The deferred
compensation currently earns interest at a rate of 4% or 6%. The risk relating to the amount of interest
paid is contained by regular review and adjustment of the interest rates and partial restriction of the
maximum permissible deferred compensation amounts.
There is no legal or regulatory minimum funding requirement for pension plans in Germany. To this
extent only a small share of the domestic DB plans at thyssenkrupp are covered by offsettable assets
held in trust by way of a Contractual Trust Arrangement (CTA). thyssenkrupp is therefore exposed to
only a small investment risk in this connection, which is accommodated through investment guidelines
and a broad mix and spread of asset categories. The low level of external funding for German pension
plan obligations reflects the objective of the CTA, which is not to fund the benefits in full but to secure
only those benefits not protected by the mutual pension guarantee association
(Pensionssicherungsverein auf Gegenseitigkeit (PSVaG)) in the event of insolvency.
Most of the defined contribution plans (DC plans) in Germany are in the form of employer- or
employee-funded direct insurance plans, but the share of these is immaterial in comparison with the
defined benefit plans.

180

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The majority of Group companies outside Germany also provide pension plans for their employees.
These plans are in some cases based on statutory requirements or collective agreements, but in other
cases they are provided by the Group companies on a voluntary basis.
The range of benefits provided under the plans differs widely depending on local arrangements,
extending from DC plans to final-salary defined-benefit schemes with regular pension payment.
In the USA, hourly paid employees receive benefits based on years of service. Salaried employee
benefits are typically based on years of service and salary history. The main DB plans in the USA are
frozen related to future servicing, so the employees (with few exceptions, e.g. some collectively agreed
employment contracts) accrue benefits mainly under DC plans.
In Great Britain, employee benefits are based on years of service and an employee’s final salary before
retirement. In this country on a staffing policy view DB plans play a less important role today because
all current employees have been transitioned to DC plans over the past years. The risk from DB plans
therefore relates exclusively to the vested rights of terminated employees, which will be claimed at a
later time, and to current pension benefit payments.
In Liechtenstein there is in the broadest sense a statutory requirement to offer all employees in the
mandatory social insurance scheme a defined contribution pension plan, which is implemented in the
form of a company pension fund (Pensionskasse).
Partly due to legal minimum funding requirements, the pension plans outside Germany are funded to a
much greater extent by externally separated assets. Minimum funding requirements for employee
pension plans outside Germany are set out inter alia in the "Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974" in conjunction with the "Pension Protection Act of 2006" in the USA, the "Pension Act 1995"
in conjunction with the "Pension Act 2004" in Great Britain, and the employee retirement benefits act
"Gesetz über die betriebliche Personalvorsorge (BPVG)" in Liechtenstein, which require for example full
external funding of the obligations or a financing under a capital funding system. For more information
on the breakdown and investment strategy for plan assets, please refer to the remarks on plan assets.
Material risks associated with the different types of pension plans include above all financial risks as
well as risks in the areas of inflation and biometrics.

181

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Inflation risks which could lead to an increase in benefit obligations exist because some of the plans
are based on (final) salary and in some cases annual pension modules are directly linked to current
salaries (defined contribution plans). To this extent a rise in salaries above the salary/career trends
assumed in the valuation of the obligation would also require a direct increase in the provisions (past
service effect in the case of (final) salary pensions) or the future service cost (defined contribution
plans).
In addition, further charges could result from the need for a cost-of-living adjustment in excess of the
assumed pension trend during the pension payment phase, which would lead to an immediate
increase in the provisions. A significant number of the pension plans in Germany are required by law to
provide a cost-of-living adjustment. A cost-of-living adjustment may also be required under (collective
bargaining) agreements or agreed on a voluntary/discretionary basis.
Biometric risks can result either from early benefit claims (risk of sudden changes to the balance sheet
after death or invalidity) or from underestimated life expectancies (longevity risk) and could likewise
result in costs to the company due to unexpected increases in provisions and early cash outflows.
Risks from changes to the discount rate are purely balance sheet-related, i.e. the provisions are
adjusted directly against equity without affecting income. Cash outflows are not affected.
Under the pension plans in Germany, individual beneficiaries are in part counted more than once due
to entitlements under different components of the pension systems. The breakdown of total of pension
plans by active employees, terminated employees with vested benefits and pensioners is as follows:

B R E A K D OW N O F T H E TOTA L O F P E N S I ON P L A N S BY B E NE F I CI AR I E S
Sept. 30, 2015

Active employees
Terminated employees with vested benefits

Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

108,313

26,318

134,631

109,906

28,108

138,014

22,185

6,539

28,724

22,212

6,290

28,502

Pensioners

122,799

12,694

135,493

118,632

12,583

131,215

Total

253,297

45,551

298,848

250,750

46,981

297,731

182

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Changes in defined benefit obligations and plan assets
The reconciliation of the changes in the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets are
as follows:

C H A N G E I N DE F I NE D B E N E F I T O B LI G ATI O N S A N D P L AN A S S E T S
Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Change in defined benefit obligations (DBO):
DBO at beginning of fiscal year

7,067

2,473

9,540

7,059

2,621

9,680

Service cost

111

42

153

117

51

168

Interest expense

176

83

259

170

76

246

Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from experience adjustments

144

11

155

(2)

(30)

(31)

Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in demographic
assumptions

3

47

50

0

(14)

(14)

Remeasurement: Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in financial assumptions

83

62

145

1,096

398

1,495

Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)

2

(1)

(13)

(14)

3

(1)

Settlements

0

(1)

(1)

0

0

0

Currency differences

0

208

208

0

(101)

(101)

Participant contributions

0

17

17

0

18

18

(417)

(142)

(559)

(445)

(141)

(587)

0

0

0

0

(1)

(1)

(107)

(175)

(282)

0

2

2

0

9

9

0

2

2

7,059

2,621

9,680

7,999

2,879

10,878

Benefit payments
Settlement payments
Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses
Others
DBO at end of fiscal year
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of fiscal year

215

2,090

2,305

197

2,100

2,297

Interest income

5

73

78

5

63

68

Remeasurement: Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets, excluding amounts
included in interest income

0

(29)

(29)

1

159

160

Currency differences

0

175

175

0

(105)

(105)

Employer contributions

0

82

82

0

72

72

Participant contributions
Benefit payments

0

17

17

0

18

18

(23)

(133)

(156)

(19)

(135)

(154)
(1)

Settlement payments

0

0

0

0

(1)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

(177)

(177)

0

0

0

Administration cost

0

(7)

(7)

0

(7)

(7)

Others

0

9

9

0

0

0

197

2,100

2,297

185

2,163

2,348

Fair value of plan assets at end of fiscal year

As of September 30, 2015, past service cost mainly relates to a plan in Liechtenstein. Adapting the
factor used to convert paid-in contributions into a lifelong pension upon retirement resulted in a
reduction in defined benefit obligations.

183

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

As of the balance sheet date, defined benefit obligations of €10,878 million (prior year: €9,680 million)
in total related to plans that are wholly unfunded in the amount of €7,187 million (prior year: €6,422
million) and to plans that are wholly or partly funded in the amount of €3,691 million (prior year:
€3,258 million).

Change of net defined liability and asset ceiling
The net defined benefit liability changed as follows:

CHANGE IN NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY
Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Net defined benefit liability at beginning of fiscal year

Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

7,403

6,852

403

7,255

6,862

541

Service cost plus net interest income/(expense)

282

53

335

282

64

347

Remeasurements

230

147

377

1,093

178

1,271

Currency differences
Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)

0

34

34

0

3

3

(1)

(13)

(14)

3

(1)

2

0

(1)

(1)

0

0

0

Settlements
Employer contributions

0

(82)

(82)

0

(72)

(72)

Benefit payments

(394)

(9)

(403)

(427)

(6)

(433)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

(107)

2

(105)

0

2

2

0

7

7

0

7

7

Administration cost
Others
Net defined benefit liability at end of fiscal year
thereof: accrued pension liability

0

0

0

0

1

1

6,862

541

7,403

7,814

716

8,530

6,862

583

7,445

7,814

720

8,534

0

(42)

(42)

0

(3)

(3)

thereof: other non-financial assets

The amount calculated in accordance with the asset ceiling rules and minimum funding requirements
changed as follows:

C H A N G E I N AS S E T C E I L I NG ( I N C LU S I VE O F M I N I M U M F U N D I N G )
Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Net amount at beginning of fiscal year

0

20

20

0

20

20

Interest expense/(income)

0

1

1

million €

0

1

1

Remeasurement: Limitation of asset ceiling exclusive of amounts included in interest
expense/income

0

(2)

(2)

0

(18)

(18)

Currency differences

0

1

1

0

(1)

(1)

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

0

0

0

0

0

0

Net amount at end of fiscal year

0

20

20

0

1

1

184

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Net periodic pension cost
The net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit plans were as follows:

N E T P E R I O D I C P E N S I O N CO S T
Year ended Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Service cost

111

42

153

117

51

168

Net interest cost

170

12

182

165

14

179

million €

Administration cost
Past service cost (inclusive of curtailments)
Settlement loss/(gain)
Net periodic pension cost

0

7

7

0

7

7

(1)

(13)

(14)

3

(1)

2

0

(1)

(1)

0

0

0

280

47

327

286

70

356

Assumptions
The assumptions for discount rates, the rates of compensation increase and the rates of pension
progression on which the calculation of the obligations is based were derived in accordance with
standard principles and established for each country as a function of their respective economic
conditions. Discount rates are generally determined based on market yields of AA-rated corporate
bonds of appropriate term and currency. Due to the strong volatility on the financial markets, the
discount rate for pension obligations in Germany was 1.30% as of September 30, 2016, compared
with 2.50% in the prior year.
The Group applied the following weighted average assumptions to determine benefit obligation:

W E I G H T E D AV E R AG E A S S U M P T I O N S
Sept. 30, 2015
in %

Discount rate

Sept. 30, 2016

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

Germany

Outside
Germany

Total

2.50

3.02

2.64

1.30

1.78

1.41

Rate of compensation increase

2.59

0.73

2.10

2.50

1.27

2.25

Rate of pension progression

1.50

2.05

1.56

1.50

1.52

1.50

Accrued pensions in Germany are recognized on the basis of the “2005 G tables” of Prof. Dr. Klaus
Heubeck, with modifications for certain beneficiary groups to take into account a longer life expectancy.
In the other countries the following biometric tables were generally used: USA: Modified version of the
RP-2014 Mortality Base Table and MP-2014 Mortality Projection Scale, Great Britain: Series Tables
partly modified, and Liechtenstein: BVG2010 Gen.

185

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Alternative assumptions (in each case weighted-average rate of all domestic and foreign pension
obligations) would result in the following changes in the defined benefit obligation and the
corresponding reverse changes in equity. The table shows the effects of the change in one assumption
with all other assumptions remaining unchanged:

S E N S I T I VI T Y A N A LYS I S

Discount rate

Rate of compensation
increase

Increase by 0.5 percentage points

Sept. 30, 2016
Change of defined benefit
obligation (€ million)

Germany

Outside
Germany

Germany

Outside
Germany

(412)

(177)

(514)

(211)

Decrease by 0.5 percentage points

438

189

549

228

Increase by 0.5 percentage points

16

6

19

16

Decrease by 0.5 percentage points

(16)

(6)

(19)

(16)

Rate of pension progression Increase by 0.25 percentage points

Mortality probability

Sept. 30, 2015
Change of defined benefit
obligation (€ million)

153

22

181

28

Decrease by 0.25 percentage points

(149)

(21)

(177)

(28)

Decrease by 10.0 percentage points

243

101

294

110

To test the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation due to a change in the mortality and life
expectancy assumptions, an alternative analysis was carried out on the basis of 10% lower mortality
probabilities from retirement age. For beneficiaries currently aged 63 to 65, this roughly corresponds to
a one year increase in life expectancy on entering retirement.

Plan assets
In the Group, the majority of reported plan assets associated with the funded pension plans are located
in the USA, Great Britain and to a lesser extent in Germany and some other European countries. The
Group invests in diversified portfolios consisting of an array of asset classes that attempt to maximize
returns while minimizing volatility. The asset classes mainly include national and international stocks,
fixed income government and non-government securities, real estate and shares in highly diversified
funds. Plan assets do not include any direct investments in thyssenkrupp debt securities, treasury
shares or real estate used on its own.
The Group uses professional investment managers to invest plan assets based on specific investment
guidelines. The Investment Committees of the respective plan consist of senior financial management
especially from treasury and other appropriate executives. The Investment Committees meet regularly
to review the risks and performance of the major pension funds and approve the selection and
retention of external managers.

186

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

For the Group’s main pension funds, regular asset liability studies are also carried out, in which
actuaries conduct a detailed analysis of the structure of the pension obligations (among other things in
terms of age structure, duration, possible interest rate/inflation risks). On this basis the investment
strategy and target portfolio of the pension funds are then defined and updated.
The processes established for managing and monitoring the plan assets as described above are used
to counter the usual risks associated with capital market investment – counterparty, liquidity/market
and other risks.
As described above, the major pension obligations exist in Germany, the USA, Great Britain and
Liechtenstein. The plan assets in these countries amount to 84% of the total plan assets as of
September 30, 2016 (prior year: 87%). As of the balance sheet date the portfolio of these major
pension funds comprises the following asset categories:

A S S E T A L L O C AT I O N O F MA J O R PE N S I O N F U N D S
Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016
Fair value (€ million)

Asset categories

Equity securities
Bonds
Derivatives
Cash and cash equivalents
Others
Total

Quoted market
price in an
Total active market

Fair value (€ million)

No quoted
market price
in an active
market

Portion of
major plan
assets
(in %)

Quoted market
price in an
Total active market

No quoted
market price
in an active
market

Portion of
major plan
assets
(in %)

655

636

19

33

683

665

18

34

1,035

1,035

0

52

1,040

1,040

0

52

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

57

57

0

3

52

52

0

3

237

186

51

12

206

154

52

10

1,984

1,914

70

100

1,981

1,911

70

100

In general, the Group’s funding policy is to contribute amounts to the plans sufficient to meet the
minimum statutory funding requirements relevant in the country in which the plan is located. In the
USA, certain plans require minimum funding based on collective bargaining agreements. The Group
may from time to time make additional contributions at its own discretion. thyssenkrupp’s expected
contribution in fiscal year 2016 / 2017 is €96 million (prior year: €66 million) related to its funded
plans, all of which is expected to be as cash contributions.

187

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Pension benefit payments
In fiscal 2015 / 2016, pension benefit payments for plans in Germany of €445 million (prior year: €417
million) were mainly from provisions, and pension benefit payments for non-German plans of €141
million (prior year: €142 million) were made mainly from plan assets. The estimated future pension
benefits to be paid by the Group’s defined benefit pension plans are as follows:

E S T I M ATE D FU T U R E P E N S I O N B E N E F I T PAY M E N T S
million €

Germany

Outside Germany

Total

2016 / 2017

446

130

576

2017 / 2018

416

128

544

2018 / 2019

413

133

546

2019 / 2020

410

133

543

2020 / 2021

406

133

539

2021 / 2022 – 2025 / 2026

1,921

686

2,607

Total

4,012

1,342

5,355

(for fiscal year)

The duration of defined benefit plans amounts to 13 years for Germany (prior year: 12 years) and to
16 years (prior year: 15 years) for the other countries.

Defined contribution plans (DC plans)
The Group also maintains domestic and foreign defined contribution plans. Amounts contributed by the
Group under such plans are based upon percentage of the employees’ salary or the amount of
contributions made by the employees. The total cost of pension plans accounted for as defined
contribution plans in the current fiscal year was €161 million (prior year: €143 million). In addition,
contributions paid to public/state pension insurance institutions amounted to €625 million (prior year:
€574 million).

Partial retirement
In particular German companies have obligations resulting from partial retirement agreements. Under
these agreements, employees work additional time prior to retirement, which is subsequently paid for
in installments after retirement. In addition, employees receive a supplement on top of their pay. For
these obligations, accruals were recognized in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.

188

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

16 Provisions for employee benefits and other provisions
P R OV I S I O N S F O R E M P L OY E E B E N E FI T S A N D OT H E R PR OV I SI O N S

million €

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015

Employee
benefits

Product
warranties
and product
defects

Other
contractual
costs

Restructuring

Decommissioning
obligations

Others

Total

701

490

83

282

252

864

2,673

Currency differences

8

4

2

1

0

9

23

10

4

3

(4)

0

6

20

Additions

501

137

114

78

10

204

1,043

Accretion

6

0

0

1

8

1

16

(383)

(57)

(66)

(150)

(5)

(449)

(1,110)

Reversals

(61)

(109)

(33)

(11)

(6)

(111)

(331)

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016

781

470

102

196

259

525

2,333

Acquisitions/divestitures of businesses

Amounts utilized

As of September 30, 2016, €1,371 million (prior year: €1,428 million) of the total of provisions for
employee benefits and other provisions are current, while €963 million (prior year: €1,245 million) are
non-current. Provisions of €1,117 million (prior year: €1,286 million) have a remaining term of more
than one year.
Provisions for employee compensation and benefit costs primarily represent employment anniversary
bonuses and obligations for the management incentive plans, while social plan and related costs
pertaining to personnel related structural measures are reflected in the provision for restructuring
activities. Pension related obligations for partial retirement agreements and early retirement programs,
partly resulting from restructurings, are part of the provision for pensions and similar obligations.
Product warranties and product defects represent the Group’s responsibility for the proper functioning
of the goods sold (product warranty) as well as the obligation that arise from the use of the products
sold (product defect).
Provisions for other contractual costs represent pending losses from uncompleted contracts.

189

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The provision for restructurings consists of provisions for employee termination benefits and exit costs
which have been established by operating divisions for costs incurred in connection with activities
which do not generate any future economic benefits for the Group. With the exemption of Steel
Americas restructurings are being carried out in all business areas The additions to restructuring
provisions in the fiscal year in the amount of €78 million in total consists of €26 million within the
Elevator Technology business area, €19 million within the Materials Services business area, €18 million
within the Components Technology business area and €8 million within the Industrial Solutions
business area.
The provision for decommissioning obligations mainly consists of obligations associated with mining
activities and recultivating landfills. Obligations associated with mining activities and recultivating
landfills are generally handled over long periods of time, in some cases more than 30 years. The
technical parameters are very complex. As a result, uncertainty exists with regard to the timing and
concrete amount of the expenses.
Other provisions include provisions for litigation risks, environmental obligations and other risks from
individual items not allocable to other positions. Provisions for the following items are included:
Claims for damages have been filed both in and out of court against thyssenkrupp AG and companies
of the thyssenkrupp Group by potential injured parties in connection with the elevator cartel. A part of
the claims has not yet been quantified. The court proceedings are pending in Germany, Belgium,
Austria and the Netherlands and are at various stages; in part proceedings have already been settled
or the actions have been withdrawn or dismissed. For the part of the claims thyssenkrupp assesses will
probably result in cash outflows, thyssenkrupp has recognized provisions for risks.
In connection with the rail cartel, which concerned prohibited cartel agreements in the period 20012011 with regard to the supply of rails, sleepers and turnouts to private companies, including
construction companies and companies operating private rail operations as well as local transport
authorities (the so-called “private market”), various companies, particularly local transport services,
have also asserted or announced damage claims in or mostly out of court as potential injured parties.
Proceedings are at various stages; in part proceedings have already been settled or otherwise brought
to an end. thyssenkrupp has recognized provisions for the damage claims.

190

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In the USA the non-operating former Group company The Budd Company (“Budd”) filed a restructuring
and liquidation plan in 2014. In this connection various claims were made against thyssenkrupp
companies in the three-digit million range. These claims were settled and the restructuring plan for
Budd came into legal force. The payments to be made over several years by thyssenkrupp under this
settlement will mainly be used to finance health care plans for former Budd employees. The provision
that had been recognized for this covers these payments in full, with the earnings impact of this
provision had largely been offset by the tax effects of the settlement. As of September 30, 2016 the
provision was reclassified to liabilities with corresponding presentation of the current portion. The
reclassification is stated as an amount utilized in the “Other obligations” column.

17 Financial debt
F I N A N C I A L DE B T
Carrying amounts in million €

Bonds
Loan notes
Liabilities to financial institutions
Finance lease liabilities
Other loans

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

5,417

5,019

81

326

598

537

33

24

256

250

6,385

6,157

Bonds

999

1,249

Loan notes

361

5

Liabilities to financial institutions

173

175

6

3

Non-current financial debt

Acceptance payables
Finance lease liabilities

11

9

Other loans

20

13

Current financial debt

1,570

1,455

Financial debt

7,955

7,611

Current financial debt includes financial debt with a remaining term up to one year, while the noncurrent financial debt has a remaining term of more than one year.
Financial debt in the amount of €194 million (prior year: €213 million) is collateralized by real estate.
As of September 30, 2016, the financial debt reflects a total discount in the amount of €34 million
(prior year: €37 million), which is offset by a total premium in the amount of €1 million (prior year: 0).
Amortization of discounts and premiums of financial debt is included in “financial income/(expense), net”.

191

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

B O N D S AN D LOA N N OT E S
Carrying
Carrying
Notional
amount in
amount in
amount in
million € as of million € as of million € as of
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2016

ThyssenKrupp Finance Nederland B.V. bond (€1,000 million) 2009 / 2016

Fair value in
Interest rate million € as of
in % Sept. 30, 2016

Maturity

999

–

–

–

– 02 / 25 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,250 million) 2012 / 2017

1,248

1,250

1,250

4.3750

1,270 02 / 28 / 2017

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,600 million) 2013 / 2018

1,596

1,597

1,600

4.0000

1,700 08 / 27 / 2018

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€1,250 million) 2014 / 2019

1,239

1,242

1,250

3.1250

1,326 10 / 25 / 2019

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€750 million) 2015 / 2020

743

744

750

1.7500

767 11 / 25 / 2020

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€600 million) 2015 / 2025

591

592

600

2.5000

608 02 / 25 / 2025

thyssenkrupp AG bond (€850 million) 2016 / 2021

–

844

850

2.7500

895 03 / 08 / 2021

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€80 million) 2008 / 2016

80

–

–

–

– 09 / 15 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€50 million) 2011 / 2016

50

–

–

–

– 03 / 11 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€150 million) 2011 / 2016

150

–

–

–

– 03 / 11 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€50 million) 2011 / 2016

50

–

–

–

– 03 / 29 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€50 million) 2011 / 2016

31

–

–

–

– 04 / 12 / 2016

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€70 million) 2012 / 2017

69

69

70

3.5500

74 10 / 02 / 2017

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€8 million) 2014 / 2018

8

8

8

2.2500

8 12 / 30 / 2018

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€4 million) 2014 / 2019

4

4

4

2.5000

4 12 / 30 / 2019

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€100 million) 2015 / 2018

–

100

100

0.9310

100 12 / 14 / 2018

thyssenkrupp AG loan note (€150 million) 2016 / 2021

–

150

150

1.7500

6,858

6,600

6,632

Total

153 03 / 11 / 2021
6,905

In March 2016 thyssenkrupp AG issued a bond with a total volume of €850 million with a maturity of
five years and a coupon of 2.75% p.a. under its €10 billion debt issuance program. In December 2015
thyssenkrupp AG also issued a €100 million loan note with a maturity of three years and a coupon of
0.931% p.a., and in March 2016 a €150 million loan note with a maturity of five years and a coupon of
1.75% p.a.
As of September 30, 2016, the financing structure of liabilities to financial institutions and other loans
comprise the following:

L I A B I L I T I E S TO F I N A N CI A L I N S T I T U T I O NS A N D OT H E R L OA N S
Carrying
Carrying
amount in
amount in
million € as of million € as of
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Weighted
average
interest rate
thereof
in % as of
in € Sept. 30, 2016

Weighted
average
interest rate
thereof
in % as of
in USD Sept. 30, 2016

thereof
Fair value in
in other million € as of
currencies Sept. 30, 2016

Other credits at variable interest rates

504

494

154

2.11

0

0.00

340

494

Credits at fixed interest rates

543

481

223

5.10

98

3.70

160

517

1,047

975

377

4.03

98

3.98

500

1,011

Total

Under a syndicated joint credit multi-currency facility agreement, thyssenkrupp has access to funds of
€2.0 billion with variable interest rates. In March 2016 the facility, which had a term until March 28,
2018, was prematurely extended to March 14, 2021. The credit facility was not utilized as of the
balance sheet date.

192

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

In addition to the syndicated joint credit multi-currency-facility agreement there are revolving credit
agreements of €1.9 billion in total with banking institutions whereby thyssenkrupp AG or thyssenkrupp
Finance USA, Inc. can borrow in Euros, U.S. dollars or in British pounds Sterling. As of September 30,
2016, the credit agreements were not drawn.
In total the Group has available unused, committed credit lines amounting to €3.9 billion.
The Group’s Commercial Paper Program also provides up to €1.5 billion in additional financing.
Commercial papers are debt instruments which can be issued under our program with a term of up to
364 days depending on investor demand. As of September 30, 2016, the program was not used.
As of the balance sheet date the future minimum lease payments reconcile to their present value
(= finance lease liability) as follows:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N F U T U R E M I N I M U M LE AS E PAY M E N T S TO P R E S E N T VA LU E O F F I NA N C E LE A S E L I A B I L I T Y
Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Future minimum
lease payments

Not later than one year
Between one and five years

million €

Interest

Present value (finance
lease liabilities)

Future minimum
lease payments

Interest

Present value (finance
lease liabilities)

14

3

11

12

2

9

30

6

24

21

5

16

Later than five years

17

8

9

15

6

8

Total

61

17

44

47

14

33

Maturity of financial debt is as follows:

M AT U R I T Y O F F I N A N C I A L D E B T

Total financial debt

Thereof:
Liabilities to financial
institutions

2016 / 2017

1,455

175

2017 / 2018

1,894

210

2018 / 2019

237

112

2019 / 2020

1,354

87

2020 / 2021

1,791

53

880

76

7,611

713

million € (for fiscal year)

nach 2020 / 2021
Total

193

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

18 Trade accounts payable
Trade accounts payable in the amount of €288 million (prior year: €137 million) have a remaining term
of more than one year.

19 Other financial liabilities
OT H E R F I N A NC I A L L I AB I L I TI E S
Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

current

non-current

current

non-current

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

772

2

748

221

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting

326

–

163

–

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Total

128

–

63

–

1,226

2

975

221

Other financial liabilities amounting to €228 million (prior year: €12 million) have a remaining term of
more than one year.

20 Other non-financial liabilities
OT H E R NO N - FI N A N CI A L L I AB I LI T I E S
Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

million €

current

non-current

current

Amounts due to customers for construction work

4,131

–

3,638

–

Advance payments

1,104

–

1,087

–

Selling and buying market related liabilities

non-current

792

–

864

–

Liabilities due to put options

14

0

15

0

Liabilities to the employees

812

–

841

–

Liabilities for social security

97

–

95

–

Deferred income

66

–

44

–

Tax liabilities (without income taxes)

273

–

260

–

Miscellaneous

304

5

285

6

7,593

5

7,130

6

Total

Other non-financial liabilities amounting to €2,328 million (prior year: €972 million) have a remaining
term of more than one year.

194

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Amounts due to customers for construction work are calculated as follows:

L I A B I L I T I E S FO R CON S T R UC T I O N WO R K
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

10,570

10,250

(14,701)

(13,889)

(4,131)

(3,638)

Contract costs incurred and recognized contract profits
(less recognized losses)
less advance payments received
Total

21 Contingencies and commitments
Contingencies
thyssenkrupp AG as well as, in individual cases, its subsidiaries have issued or have had guarantees
issued in favour of customers or lenders. The following table shows obligations under guarantees
where the principal debtor is not a consolidated Group company:

CO N T I N G E N CI E S
Maximum potential amount of
future payments as of
million €

Provision as of

Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Advance payment bonds

197

154

Performance bonds

132

133

3

2

61

61

17

12

Residual value guarantees
Other guarantees
Total

1

1

31

75

0

1

421

423

21

16

Guarantees include contingent liabilities of joint ventures of €337 million (prior year: €328 million).
Contingent liabilities of joint ventures include €148 million (prior year: €161 million) that apply to the
shares of the other joint venturers.
The terms of these guarantees depend on the type of guarantee and may range from three months to
ten years (e.g. rental payment guarantees).
The basis for possible payments under the guarantees is always the non-performance of the principal
debtor under a contractual agreement, e.g. late delivery, delivery of non-conforming goods under a
contract, non-performance with respect to the warranted quality or default under a loan agreement.

195

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

All guarantees are issued by or issued by instruction of thyssenkrupp AG or subsidiaries upon request
of the principal debtor obligated by the underlying contractual relationship and are subject to recourse
provisions in case of default. Is such a principal debtor is a company owned fully or partially by a
foreign third party, such third party is generally requested to provide additional collateral in a
corresponding amount.
thyssenkrupp bears joint and several liability as a member of certain civil law partnerships, ordinary
partnerships and consortiums.
thyssenkrupp has contingencies for the following material legal disputes:
The judicial review pursued by former shareholders of Thyssen and Krupp to examine the share
exchange ratios used in the merger of Thyssen AG and Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp to form
thyssenkrupp AG in accordance with § 305 UmwG (Reorganization Act, before amendment) was
rejected by final ruling of the Higher Regional Court in Düsseldorf on August 18, 2016. These
proceedings are now ended; there will be no further cash payment to former shareholders.
In connection with the majority interest previously held by the Industrial Solutions business area in the
Greek shipyard Hellenic Shipyards (HSY) and the construction of submarines for the Greek Navy, the
Greek government has filed legal and arbitration actions to claim compensation of €2.1 billion and
reimbursement of a €115 million installment payment from thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG and
thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH as well as from HSY and the current majority shareholder of HSY.
To date the Greek government has concretized claims only in a double-digit million euro amount,
relating exclusively to its contact with HSY. The claims asserted against the thyssenkrupp companies
appear unfounded. All contractual obligations of thyssenkrupp Marine Systems and other thyssenkrupp
companies vis-à-vis the Greek government have been fulfilled since 2010.
In addition further legal and arbitration actions and official investigations and proceedings as well as
claims have been filed against thyssenkrupp companies or may be initiated or filed in the future. They
include for example legal, arbitration and out-of-court disputes as well as official investigations in
connection with the construction, tax concessions granted, and operation of the Brazilian steel plant,
which could lead to payment of damages and fines or tax charges. Disputes in connection with the
acquisition or disposal of companies or company units which may lead to partial repayment of the
purchase price or to the payment of damages or to tax charges. Furthermore, damage claims may be
payable to contractual partners, customers, consortium partners and subcontractors under
performance contracts. Predicting the progress and results of lawsuits involves considerable difficulties
and uncertainties. This means that lawsuits, official investigations and proceedings as well as claims
not disclosed separately could also individually or together with other legal disputes, official
investigations and proceedings as well as claims have a negative and also potentially major future
impact on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations. However, at present
thyssenkrupp does not expect pending lawsuits, official investigations and proceedings as well as
claims not explained separately in this section to have a major negative impact on the Group’s net
assets, financial position and results of operations.

196

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Commitments and other contingencies
The Group is the lessee to property, plant and equipment classified as operating leases. Rental
expense amounting to €354 million (prior year: €336 million) resulting from rental contracts, long-term
leases and leasing contracts classified as operating leases was incurred in fiscal 2015 / 2016. It
comprises as follows:

E X PE N S E R E SU LT I N G F R O M O P E R AT I NG L E A S E CO N T R AC T S
million €

Minimum rental payments
Contingent rentals
less income from sublease agreements
Total

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

337

354

1

2

(2)

(2)

336

354

The future minimum rental payments, excluding accrued interest from such non-cancellable contracts
that have an initial or remaining term of more than one year as of the balance sheet date are (at face
amounts):

F U T U R E M I N I M U M L E A S E PAY M E N T S
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Not later than one year

261

284

Between one and five years

392

462

Later than five years
Total

66

110

719

857

The future minimum rental income from non-cancelable sublease contracts amounting to €0.4 million
(prior year: €2 million) is not included in the total of future minimum rental payments.
The commitment to enter into investment projects amounts to €551 million (prior year: €322 million) as
of September 30, 2016 and relates mainly to property, plant and equipment of the Components
Technology, Steel Europe and Steel Americas business areas.
Payment commitments and obligations to make further contributions to corporations and cooperative
associations exist in the total amount of €42 million (prior year: 0). In addition, other financial
commitments exist in the amount of €2,692 million (prior year: €3,282 million), primarily from the
commitments to purchase coking coal, coal and lime under long term supply contracts as well as
purchasing commitments resulting from the Group’s electricity and gas supply contracts. In addition, in
the Steel Europe and Steel Americas business areas long term iron ore and iron ore pellets supply
contracts exist which will result in purchasing commitments over a period of up to 13 years. Due to the
high volatility of iron ore prices, the measurement of the complete purchasing commitments is based
on the iron ore price as of the current balance sheet date resulting in purchasing commitments of
€7,127 million (prior year: €5,448 million) in total.

197

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Based on the risk bearing ability of the Group or the Group companies, there exist adequate
deductibles in the various classes of insurance. One or more damages at these units could impact the
Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations.

22 Financial instruments
The following table shows financial assets and liabilities by measurement categories and classes.
Finance lease receivables and liabilities, and derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are also
included although they are not part of any IAS 39 measurement category.

F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 5
Measurement
in accordance
with IAS 17

Measurement in accordance with IAS 39

million €

Trade accounts receivable (excluding finance lease)

Carrying
amount on
balance sheet
as of
Sept. 30, 2015

(Amortized)
cost

5,069

5,069

Loans and receivables

Fair value
recognized in
profit or loss

Fair value
Fair value
recognized in
as of
equity Amortized cost Sept. 30, 2015

5,069

5,069

Finance lease receivables

5,069

49

Other financial assets

366

Loans and receivables

49
273

58

35

366

255

Available-for-sale financial assets

255

18

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

17
0

Cash and cash equivalents

35

58

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
4,535

49

58
18

18

4,535

4,535

4,535

4,535

9,859

9,859

9,859

Available-for-sale financial assets

35

18

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

58

Loans and receivables
Total of financial assets

10,019

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Loans and receivables

Financial debt (excluding finance lease)

7,911

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Finance lease liabilities

44

Trade accounts payable

4,985

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

17

58

7,911

8,007

7,911

8,007
44

4,985

1,228

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

774

4,985
326

128

774

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

0

Total of financial liabilities

1,228
774

326

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

44
4,985

4,985

Other financial liabilities

35

58

326
128

128

14,168

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

13,670

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

198

326

13,670

13,766
326

326

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6
Measurement
in accordance
with IAS 17

Measurement in accordance with IAS 39
Carrying
amount on
balance sheet
as of
Sept. 30, 2016

million €

Trade accounts receivable (excluding finance lease)

5,001

Loans and receivables
Finance lease receivables

(Amortized)
cost

Fair value
recognized in
profit or loss

Fair value
Fair value
recognized in
as of
equity Amortized cost Sept. 30, 2016

5,001

5,001

5,001

5,001

1

Other financial assets

451

Loans and receivables

1
340

60

51

324

Available-for-sale financial assets

324

16

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

0

Cash and cash equivalents

4,105

Loans and receivables
Total of financial assets

18

34

33

33

60

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

1
451

60

4,105

4,105

4,105

4,105

9,559

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Loans and receivables

9,431

9,431

Available-for-sale financial assets

34

16

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

60

Financial debt (excluding finance lease)

7,578

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Finance lease liabilities

33

Trade accounts payable

5,119

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

9,431
18

60

7,578

7,919

7,578

7,919
33

5,119

1,196

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

970

5,119
165

62

970

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

1,196
970

163

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

2

Total of financial liabilities

33
5,119

5,119

Other financial liabilities

34

60

163
62

63

13,927

thereof by measurement categories of IAS 39:
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

13,667

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (Financial assets held for trading)

163

13,667

14,008
163

The carrying amounts of trade accounts receivable, other current receivables as well as cash and cash
equivalents equal their fair values. The fair value of loans equals the present value of expected cash
flows which are discounted on the basis of interest rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets primarily include equity and debt instruments. They are in general
measured at fair value, which is based to the extent available on market prices as of the balance sheet
date. When no quoted market prices in an active market are available and the fair value cannot be
reliably measured, equity instruments are measured at cost.

199

163

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The fair value of foreign currency forward transactions is determined on the basis of the middle spot
exchange rate applicable as of the balance sheet date, and taking account of forward premiums or
discounts arising for the respective remaining contract term compared to the contracted forward
exchange rate. Common methods for calculating option prices are used for foreign currency options.
The fair value of an option is influenced not only by the remaining term of an option, but also by other
factors, such as current amount and volatility of the underlying exchange or base rate.
Interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are measured at fair value by discounting expected cash
flows on the basis of market interest rates applicable for the remaining contract term. In the case of
cross currency swaps, the exchange rates for each foreign currency, in which cash flows occur, are also
included.
The fair value of commodity futures is based on published price quotations. It is measured as of the
balance sheet date, both internally and by external financial partners.
The carrying amounts of trade accounts receivable and other current liabilities equal their fair values.
The fair value of fixed rate liabilities equals the present value of expected cash flows. Discounting is
based on interest rates applicable as of the balance sheet date. The carrying amounts of floating rate
liabilities equal their fair values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value could be categorized in the following three level
fair value hierarchy:

FA I R VA LU E H I E R A R C H Y A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 5
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

58

0

58

0

0

0

0

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

17

15

2

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

18

0

18

0

Total

93

15

78

0

326

0

206

120

0

0

0

0

Financial assets at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity

Financial liabilities at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial liabilities held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

128

0

128

0

Total

454

0

334

120

200

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

FA I R VA LU E H I E R A R C H Y A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6
million €

Sept. 30, 2016

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

60

0

60

0

0

0

0

0

Available-for-sale financial assets

18

16

3

0

Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting

33

0

33

0

111

16

96

0

163

0

51

113

2

0

2

0

Financial assets at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity

Total
Financial liabilities at fair value
Fair value recognized in profit or loss
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial liabilities held for trading)
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Fair value recognized in equity
Derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting
Total

62

0

62

0

227

0

114

113

The fair value hierarchy reflects the significance of the inputs used to determine fair values. Financial
instruments with fair value measurement based on quoted prices in active markets are disclosed in
Level 1. In Level 2 determination of fair values is based on observable inputs, e.g. foreign exchange
rates. Level 3 comprises financial instruments for which the fair value measurement is based on
unobservable inputs.
The following table shows the reconciliation of level 3 financial instruments:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N LE V E L 3 F I N A N C I A L I NS T R U M E N T S
million €

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2015 (assets/(liability))

(120)

Changes recognized in profit or loss

7

Balance as of Sept. 30, 2016 (assets/(liability))

(113)

The financial liability, which is based on individual valuation parameters and recognized at fair value,
primarily comprises a freight derivative which was valued according to the contractually agreed
minimum volume on the basis of recognized hedge models taking into account the market data
prevailing at the closing date. The resulting income effect is recognized in the consolidated statement
of income under "Other expenses".

201

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost with a carrying amount of €13,667 million (prior year:
€13,670 million) have a fair value of €14,008 million (prior year: €13,766 million) that was determined
based on fair value measurement attributable to Level 2.

Netting of financial assets and financial liabilities
The following two tables show to what extent financial assets and financial liabilities meet the offsetting
criteria under IAS 32 and are set off in the statement of financial position and to what extent master
netting arrangements exist which do not meet the offsetting criteria. In general, master netting
arrangements exist only for derivative financial instruments in the thyssenkrupp Group. Excepted from
this are embedded derivatives.

F I N A N C I A L AS S E T S A N D FI N A N CI A L L I AB I LI T I E S S UB J E C T TO E N F O R CE A B LE MA S T E R NE T T I N G AR R AN G E M E N T S
Amounts that meet offsetting criteria

million €

Gross amounts

Amounts set
off in the
statement of
financial
position

Amounts that do not meet offsetting criteria

Net amounts
recognized

Derivative
financial
instruments

Potential
offsetting Cash collateral

Potential net
amounts

Sept. 30, 2015
Derivatives with positive fair values

83

8

75

75

42

5

28

Derivatives with negative fair values

456

5

451

451

42

4

405

Sept. 30, 2016
Derivatives with positive fair values

92

0

92

92

42

0

50

Derivatives with negative fair values

238

13

225

225

42

10

173

The Group enters into derivative financial instruments mainly on the basis of master agreements that
do not meet the offsetting criteria under IAS 32; in these cases a right of offsetting is enforceable only
on termination of the contract on the grounds of a major breach of contract or insolvency of one of the
contractual parties. The gross amounts for these derivatives are therefore presented separately in the
statement of financial position. An exception from this are futures, for which the fair values are settled
daily on the basis of margin calls. These derivatives meet the offsetting criteria under IAS 32 and are
therefore shown as net amounts in the statement of financial position.
The following table shows net gains and losses from financial instruments by measurement categories.
Gains or losses arising from finance lease and from derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are
not included, as they are not part of any IAS 39 measurement category.

202

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

N E T G AI N S AN D L O S S E S FR O M F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U ME N T S
million €

Loans and receivables
Available-for-sale financial assets

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

(468)

137

80

8

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting
(Financial assets/liabilities held for trading)

(102)

159

Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost

(46)

(572)

Net gains under “loans and receivables” mainly comprise interest income on financial receivables as
well as gains and losses on foreign currency receivables.
The category “available-for-sale financial assets” mainly includes current earnings from equity and
debt instruments.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of foreign currency, interest rate and commodity
derivatives that do not comply with the hedge accounting requirements under IAS 39 are included in
the “derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting” category.
The category “financial liabilities measured at amortized cost” mainly comprises of interest expenses
on financial liabilities as well as gains and losses on foreign currency liabilities.
Included in net gains and losses are exchange differences of €(74) million (prior year: €(42) million).

Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts,
foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and commodity forward contracts.
Derivative financial instruments are generally used to hedge existing or anticipated underlying
transactions so as to reduce foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks.

203

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

The following table shows the notional amounts and fair values of derivatives used within the Group:

D E R I VATI V E FI N A N CI A L I N S T R U M E N T S

million €

Notional
Carrying
Notional
Carrying
amount as of
amount as of amount as of amount as of
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2016

Assets
Foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Foreign currency derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges
Embedded derivatives

1,376

27

2,100

41

264

9

360

14
1

95

1

70

Interest rate derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges1)

635

8

618

9

Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

331

30

278

18

Commodity derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges
Total

101

1

64

10

2,802

76

3,490

93

Equity and liabilities
Foreign currency derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

2,027

175

2,662

30

Foreign currency derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges

573

26

400

7

Embedded derivatives

101

3

169

2

0

0

11

0

Interest rate derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges1)

817

78

406

32

Commodity derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accouting2)

487

148

483

131

Commodity derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges

119

24

152

23

Commodity derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges

0

0

50

2

4,124

454

4,332

227

Interest rate derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

Total
1)
2)

Inclusive of cross currency swaps
Inclusive of freight derivatives

Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting
Hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 is used to hedge foreign currency risks of firm
commitments, future receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, commodity price risks
arising from sales and purchase transactions, and interest rate and foreign currency risks from noncurrent financings.

Cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are mainly used to hedge future cash flows against foreign currency and commodity
price risks arising from future sales and purchase transactions as well as interest rate and foreign
currency risks from non-current liabilities. These derivatives are measured at fair value, divided into an
effective and ineffective portion. Until realization of the hedged underlying transaction, the effective
portion of fluctuations in fair value of these derivatives is recognized directly in equity in the cumulative
other comprehensive income position, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss. The
cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity is reclassified to profit or loss in the same period during
which the future underlying transactions (hedged items) affect profit or loss. As of September 30,
2016, hedging instruments with positive fair value totaled €33 million (prior year: €18 million) and

204

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

those with negative fair value totaled €62 million (prior year: €128 million). For the 2015 / 2016 fiscal
year, €104 million (prior year: €84 million) (before tax) in unrealized gains or losses have been
recognized directly in equity in the cumulative other comprehensive income position. Cash flows from
future transactions are currently hedged for a maximum of 64 months.
During the current fiscal year, €1 million (prior year: €(27) million) of cumulative other comprehensive
income were reclassified to sales in profit or loss as a result of the underlying transactions being
realized during the year. In addition, €3 million (prior year: €36 million) of cumulative other
comprehensive income were reclassified to increase cost of inventories, as the hedged commodities
were recognized, although the underlying transaction had not yet been taken to profit or loss. This
resulted in increased expenses of €7 million in 2015 / 2016. Furthermore, €19 million (prior year: €6
million) of cumulative other comprehensive income were reclassified and increased cost of property,
plant and equipment. Thereof expenses of €1 million impacted earnings in 2015 / 2016. In addition,
income of €3 million of that reclassified amount is expected to impact earnings in 2016 / 2017 and
expenses of €17 million in subsequent fiscal years.
As of September 30, 2016, net income from the ineffective portions of derivatives classified as cash
flow hedges totaled €5 million (prior year: €(21) million).
The cancellation of cash flow hedges during the current fiscal year resulted in earnings of 0 (prior year:
€(13) million) due to reclassification from cumulative other comprehensive income. These fluctuations
in fair value of derivatives originally recognized in equity in prior year were reclassified to profit or loss
when the hedged underlying transactions in form of currency hedged sales and investments in fixed
assets were no longer probable to occur.
In the subsequent fiscal year fluctuations in fair value of derivatives included in cumulative other
comprehensive income as of the reporting date is expected to impact earnings by expenses of €20
million. During the 2017 / 2018 fiscal year, earnings are expected to be impacted by expenses of €9
million, during the 2018 / 2019 fiscal year by expenses of €10 million and during the following fiscal
years by expenses of €64 million.

Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are mainly used to hedge the exposure to changes in fair value of a firm commitment
and exposure to inventory price risks as well as to hedge interest rate risks. These commodity and
interest rate derivatives are measured at fair value. The carrying amounts of the corresponding
underlying transactions are adjusted for the change of the fair values of the hedged risks. As of
September 30, 2016 hedging instruments with negative fair value totalled €2 million (prior year: 0).
Fluctuations in fair value are recognized immediately in profit or loss under sales, cost of sales or
financial income/(expense), net, depending on the type of the underlying transaction. During the fiscal
year, income/(expense), net from the measurement of fair value hedging instruments totalled €(6)
million (prior year: 0), while income/(expense), net from the corresponding underlying transactions
during the same period amounted to €6 million (prior year: 0).

205

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
If a hedging relationship does not meet the requirements for hedge accounting in accordance with the
conditions under IAS 39 or hedge accounting is economically not reasonable, the derivative financial
instrument is recognized as a derivative that does not qualify for hedge accounting. The resulting
impact on profit or loss is shown in the table on net gains and losses from financial instruments by
measurement categories. This item also includes embedded derivatives. They exist in the
thyssenkrupp Group in the way that regular supply and service transactions with suppliers and
customers abroad are not concluded in the functional currency (local currency) of either contracting
parties.

Financial risks
The management of thyssenkrupp AG has implemented a risk management system that is monitored
by the Supervisory Board. The general conditions for compliance with the requirements for proper and
future-oriented risk management within the Group are set out in the risk management principles. These
principles aim at encouraging all Group members of staff to responsibly deal with risks as well as
supporting a sustained process to improve risk awareness. The Group guideline on risk management
and other Group guidelines specify risk management processes, compulsory limitations, and the
application of financial instruments. The risk management system aims at identifying, analyzing,
managing, controlling and communicating risks promptly throughout the Group. thyssenkrupp Group’s
risk environment is updated at least twice a year by carrying out a risk inventory in all Group
companies. The results of the risk inventory process are communicated to both thyssenkrupp AG’s
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board's audit committee. Risk management reporting is a
continuous process and part of regular Group reporting. Group guidelines and information systems are
checked regularly and adapted to current developments. In addition, our Corporate Function Internal
Auditing regularly checks whether Group companies comply with risk management system
requirements.
Being a global Group, thyssenkrupp is exposed to credit, liquidity and market risks (foreign currency,
interest rate and commodity price risks) during the course of ordinary activities. The aim of risk
management is to limit the risks arising from operating activities and associated financing
requirements by applying selected derivate and non-derivative hedging instruments.

Credit risk (counterparty default risk)
To the Group, financial instruments bear default risk resulting from one party’s possible failure to meet
its payment obligations, with the maximum default risk being equal to the positive fair value of the
respective financial instrument. During crises, default risks take on greater significance; we are
managing them very carefully by our business policy. In order to minimize default risk, the
thyssenkrupp Group only enters into financial instruments for financing purposes with contracting
parties that have a very good credit standing or are members of a deposit protection fund. For further
risk minimizing transactions are concluded in compliance with specified risk limits. In the operative

206

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

area, receivables and default risks are monitored by Group companies on an ongoing basis and
partially covered by merchandise credit insurance. Risks arising from the delivery of goods to major
customers are subject to a special credit watch. In addition, letters of credit and indemnity bonds are
used to hedge receivables from major customers. However, receivables from these contracting parties
do not reach levels that would result in extraordinary risk concentrations. Default risk is taken into
account by valuation allowances.

Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its existing or future obligations due to
insufficient availability of cash or cash equivalents. Managing liquidity risk, and therefore allocating
resources and hedging the Group’s financial independence, are some of the central tasks of
thyssenkrupp AG. In order to be able to ensure the Group’s solvency and financial flexibility at all times,
long-term credit limits and cash and cash equivalents are reserved on the basis of perennial financial
planning and monthly rolling liquidity planning. Cash pooling and external financing focus primarily on
thyssenkrupp AG and specific financing companies. Our financing is also secured for the next fiscal
year.
The gearing limit agreed upon in some credit agreements was met as of September 30, 2016. Refer
also to the explanation in Note 13 in chapter “Management of capital”.
Cash pooling and external financing focus primarily on thyssenkrupp AG and specific foreign
companies. Funds are provided internally to Group companies according to need.
The following table shows future undiscounted cash outflows from financial liabilities based on
contractual agreements:

F U T U R E U N D I S CO U N T E D C A S H O U T F L O W S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 5

million €

Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutions
Finance lease liabilities
Other financial debt
Trade accounts payable

Carrying
amount
Sept. 30, 2015

Cash flows in
2015 / 2016

Cash flows in
2016 / 2017

Cash flows
between
2017 / 2018
and
2019 / 2020

6,416

1,267

1,436

3,115

1,438

771

230

177

423

119

44

14

12

18

17

724

408

20

146

261

Cash flows
after
2019 / 2020

4,985

4,848

128

9

0

Derivative financial liabilities not qualifying for hedge accounting

326

190

56

61

19

Derivative financial liabilities qualifying for hedge accounting

128

100

36

0

0

Other financial liabilities

774

764

8

2

0

207

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

F U T U R E U N D I S CO U N T E D C A S H O U T F L O W S A S O F S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6

million €

Bonds
Liabilities to financial institutions
Finance lease liabilities
Other financial debt
Trade accounts payable
Derivative financial liabilities not qualifying for hedge accounting
Derivative financial liabilities qualifying for hedge accounting
Other financial liabilities

Carrying
amount
Sept. 30, 2016

Cash flows in
2016 / 2017

Cash flows in
2017 / 2018

Cash flows
between
2018 / 2019
and
2020 / 2021

6,269

1,460

1,755

3,084

660

713

247

240

281

77

33

12

7

13

15

596

33

101

330

246

5,119

4,982

128

10

0

163

73

27

64

0

63

45

0

23

0

970

964

4

1

2

Cash flows from derivatives are offset by cash flows from hedged underlying transactions, which have
not been considered in the analysis of maturities. If cash flows from the hedged underlying
transactions were also considered, the cash flows shown in the table would be accordingly lower.

Market risks
Market risk is the risk that fair values or future cash flows of non-derivative or derivative financial
instruments will fluctuate due to changes in risk factors. Among market risks relevant to thyssenkrupp
are foreign currency, interest rate, commodity price, and especially raw material price risks. Associated
with these risks are fluctuations in income, equity and cash flow. The objective of risk management is
to eliminate or limit emerging risks by taking appropriate precautions, especially by applying
derivatives. The application of derivatives is subject to strict controls set up on the basis of guidelines
as part of regular reporting. The Group primarily concludes over-the-counter (OTC) forward foreign
currency transactions, interest rate swaps, cross currency derivatives and commodity forward contracts
with banks and trading partners. In addition, exchange-traded futures are used to hedge commodity
prices.
The following analysis and amounts determined by means of sensitivity analyses represent
hypothetical, future-oriented data that can differ from actual outcomes because of unforeseeable
developments in financial markets. Moreover, non-financial or non-quantifiable risks, such as business
risks, are not considered here.

Foreign currency risk exposure
The international nature of our business activities generates numerous cash flows in different
currencies – especially in US dollars. Hedging the resulting currency risk exposures is an essential part
of our risk management.
Group-wide regulations form the basis for thyssenkrupp Group’s currency management. Principally, all
group companies are obliged to hedge foreign currency positions at the time of inception. Affiliated
companies based in the Euro zone are obliged to submit all unhedged positions from trade activities in

208

Cash flows
after
2020 / 2021

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

major transaction currencies to a central clearing office. Depending on the derivatives’ hedging
purpose and resulting accounting treatment, the offered positions are either hedged under a portfolio
hedge approach or directly hedged with banks on a back-to-back basis taking into account the
respective maturity. Financial transactions and the transactions undertaken by our subsidiaries outside
the Euro zone are hedged in close cooperation with central Group management. Compliance with the
Group’s requirements is regularly ascertained by our Corporate Function Internal Auditing.
Foreign currency hedging is used to fix prices on the basis of hedging rates as protection against any
unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations in the future. Hedging periods are generally based on the
maturities of underlying transactions. Foreign currency derivative contracts usually have maturities of
twelve months or less, but can also be up to 6 years in single exceptional cases.
The US dollar is the only relevant risk variable for sensitivity analyses under IFRS 7, as the vast
majority of foreign currency cash flows occurs in US dollars. As hedging transactions are generally
used to hedge underlying transactions, opposite effects in underlying and hedging transactions are
almost entirely offset over the total period. Thus, the currency risk exposure described here results
from hedging relationships with off-balance sheet underlying transactions, i.e. hedges of firm
commitments and forecasted sales. Based on our analysis, the US dollar exposure as of September
30, 2016 was as follows:
If the Euro had been 10% stronger against the US dollar as of September 30, 2016, the hedge reserve
in equity and fair value of hedging transactions would have been €8 million higher (prior year: €11
million lower) and earnings resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet date 0 (prior year:
€8 million) higher. If the Euro had been 10% weaker against the US dollar as of September 30, 2016,
the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of hedging transactions would have been €10 million lower
(prior year: €13 million higher) and earnings resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet
date €2 million higher (prior year: €12 million lower).

Interest rate risk
Due to the international focus of thyssenkrupp’s business activities, the Group procures liquidity to
cover its financial needs in international money and capital markets in different currencies and with
various maturities. Some of the resulting financial debt and financial investments are exposed to
interest rate risk. The Group’s central interest rate management manages and optimizes interest rate
risk. This includes regular interest analyses. In some cases, the Group uses derivatives to hedge
interest rate risk. These instruments are contracted with the objective of minimizing interest rate
volatilities and finance costs for underlying transactions.
As of September 30, 2015 and 2016, respectively, all interest derivatives are immediately and directly
allocated to particular financings as cash flow hedges. As of the current balance sheet date almost all
interest rate derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, while as of the prior year’s balance
sheet date all interest derivatives qualified for hedge accounting.

209

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Cross currency swaps have been contracted in connection with the financing of foreign activities,
mainly for US dollars.
Interest rate instruments can result in cash flow risks, opportunity effects, as well as interest rate risks
affecting the balance sheet and earnings. Refinancing and variable-rate financial instruments are
subject to cash flow risk which expresses the uncertainty of future interest payments. Cash flow risk is
measured by means of cash flow sensitivity. Opportunity effects arise from non-derivatives, as these
are measured at amortized cost rather than fair value, in contrast to interest derivatives. This
difference, the so-called opportunity effect, affects neither the balance sheet nor the statement of
income. On-balance sheet interest rate risks affecting equity result from the measurement of interest
derivatives qualifying as cash flow hedges. Interest rate risks affecting earnings arise from the
remaining interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting. Opportunity effects and interest
rate risks affecting the balance sheet and earnings are determined by calculating fair value sensitivity
analyses and changes.
As of September 30, 2016, a +100 /(20) basis point parallel shift in yield curves is assumed for all
currencies in interest analyses. The parallel downward shift is limited to (20) basis points to account for
continued low interest rates with in part negative interest rates. Negative interest rates are included in
the current analysis. The analysis results in the opportunities (positive values) and risks (negative
values) shown in the following table:

I N T E R E S T A NA LYS I S
Changes in all yield curves as of
Sept. 30, 2015 by
million €

Cash flow risk

+100
basis points

Sept. 30, 2016 by
(20)
basis points

+100
basis points

(20)
basis points

35

(4)

30

(6)

250

(40)

236

(49)

Interest rate risks resulting from interest rate derivatives
affecting balance sheet

(1)

4

(1)

0

Interest rate risks resulting from interest rate derivatives
affecting earnings

0

0

0

0

Opportunity effects

If, as of September 30, 2016, all yield curves combined had been 100 basis points higher, the hedge
reserve in equity and fair value of the relevant interest derivatives would have been €1 million (prior
year: €1 million) lower and earnings resulting from the measurement as of the balance sheet date €30
million (prior year: €35 million) higher. If, as of September 30, 2016, all yield curves combined had
been 20 basis points lower, the hedge reserve in equity and fair value of the relevant interest
derivatives would have been 0 (prior year: €4 million) higher and earnings resulting from the
measurement as of the balance sheet date €6 million (prior year: €4 million) lower.

Commodity price risks
The Group uses various nonferrous metals, especially nickel, as well as commodities such as ore, coal,
coke and energy, for different production processes. Furthermore extensive additional freight capacities
are needed. Purchase prices for commodities, energy and freight capacity can vary significantly
depending on market conditions.

210

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

This causes commodity price risks which can affect income, equity and cash flow. We react with
adjusted selling prices and alternative purchasing resources to ensure our competitiveness. To
minimize risks arising from commodity price volatilities, the Group also uses derivatives, especially for
ore, copper, nickel, zinc and tin. The contracting of such financial derivatives is subject to strict
guidelines which are checked for compliance by internal auditing. The nonferrous metals are generally
hedged by a central system. Only marketable instruments are used, as there are mainly commodity
forward contracts. Commodity forward contracts are measured at fair value. Fluctuations in fair value
are recognized predominately in profit or loss under sales revenue or cost of sales. Sometimes cash
flow hedge accounting is used when commodity derivatives are immediately and directly allocated to a
particular firm commitment. In some cases, fair value hedges are used to hedge the exposure to
changes in fair value of a firm commitment and exposure to inventory price risks.
Risks resulting from rising energy prices are limited by structuring procurement on the electricity
market and concluding or extending long-term natural gas contracts. These contracts are subject to the
so-called “own use exemption” and therefore not carried as derivatives.
To minimize the risk of fluctuating freight prices, the Group uses among other things long-term fixed
price contracts, of which one contract is recognized as a commodity forward transaction measured at
fair value.
Only hypothetical changes in market prices for derivatives are included in scenario analysis, required
for financial instruments under IFRS 7. Offsetting effects from underlying transactions are not taken
into account and would reduce their effect significantly.
As of September 30, 2016 a +20 /(20)% shift in market prices for non-ferrous metals and freight rates
is assumed. If an increase of 20% in market prices for said non-ferrous metals and freight rates is
assumed, the estimated hypothetical impact on profit or loss resulting from the measurement as of the
balance sheet date is €3 million (prior year: €16 million), and on equity €9 million (prior year: €9
million). If a decrease of 20% in market prices for said non-ferrous metals and freight rates is
assumed, the estimated hypothetical impact on profit or loss resulting from the measurement as of the
balance sheet date is €(3) million (prior year: €(2) million), and on equity €4 million (prior year: €(22)
million).

23 Related parties
Based on the notification received in accordance with German Securities Trade Act (WpHG) Art. 21
para. 1 as of December 3, 2013, the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation holds an
interest of 23.03% in thyssenkrupp AG; based on a voluntary notification of the Foundation as of
October 4, 2016, the interest in thyssenkrupp AG as of September 30, 2016 is unchanged. Outside the
services and considerations provided for in the by-laws (Article 21 of the Articles of Association of
thyssenkrupp AG), there are no other significant delivery and service relations.
In 2014 / 2015 and 2015 / 2016, the Group has business relations with non-consolidated subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures. Transactions with these related parties result in general from the delivery

211

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

and service relations in the ordinary course of business; the extent of the business relations is
presented in the following table:

R E LAT E D PA R T Y T R A N S AC TI O N S
Sales
million €

Supplies and services

Receivables

Total liabilities

Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

Non-consolidated subsidiaries

0

0

0

1

3

2

0

0

Associates

42

42

3

3

0

2

2

9

Joint ventures

11

15

51

13

0

4

59

28

Compensation of current Executive and Supervisory Board members
The Group’s key management personnel compensation which has to be disclosed in accordance with
IAS 24 comprises of the compensation of the current Executive and Supervisory Board members.
Compensation of the current Executive Board members is as follows:

CO M P E N S AT I O N O F E X E C UT I V E B OAR D M E M B E R S
Thousand €

Short-term benefits (excluding share-based compensation)
Post-employment benefits
Share-based compensation
Total

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

6,707

6,526

346

4,848

5,501

4,056

12,554

15,430

Service cost and past service cost resulting from the pension obligations of the current members of the
Executive Board are disclosed as post-employment benefits. The disclosure of share-based
compensation refers to the fair value at grant date.
As of September 30, 2015 and 2016, respectively, no loans or advance payments were granted to
members of the Executive Board; also as in the previous year no contingencies were assumed for the
benefit of Executive Board members.
Compensation of the current Supervisory Board members is as follows:

CO M P E N S AT I O N O F S U P E R V I S O R Y B OAR D M E MB E R S
Thousand €

Short-term benefits (inclusive of meeting attendance fees)

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

1,659

1,622

In addition, members of the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG received compensation of €69 thousand
in fiscal 2015 / 2016 (prior year: €77 thousand) for supervisory board mandates at Group subsidiaries.

212

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

As of September 30, 2015 and 2016, respectively, no loans or advance payments were granted to
members of the Supervisory Board; also as in the previous year no contingencies were assumed for
the benefit of Supervisory Board members.
For individualized presentation and further details of Executive and Supervisory Board compensation
refer to the compensation report presented in the “Corporate Governance” chapter that is part of the
combined management report.

Compensation of former Executive and Supervisory Board members
Total compensation paid to former members of the Executive Board and their surviving dependants
amounted to €17.4 million (prior year: €17.4 million). Under IFRS an amount of €304.1 million (prior
year: €261.6 million) is accrued for pension obligations benefiting former Executive Board members
and their surviving dependants.

24 Segment reporting
thyssenkrupp is organized in the following operating business areas that represent the Group’s
activities within capital goods and materials. The business areas are in line with the internal
organizational and reporting structure and represent the segments in accordance with IFRS 8. In the
year ended September 30, 2015, the Stainless Global business area was still classified as discontinued
operation; after the disposal at the end of the 1st quarter ended December 31, 2012, income and
expense directly related to the disposal of Stainless Global was reported here.

Components Technology
This business area offers efficient and innovative components for the automotive, construction and
engineering sectors as well as for wind turbines.

Elevator Technology
This business area is active in the construction, modernization and servicing of elevators, escalators,
moving walks, stair and platform lifts as well as passenger boarding bridges. Alongside a full range of
installations for the volume market, the business area also delivers customized solutions.

Industrial Solutions
Industrial Solutions is a leading international supplier in special and large-scale plant construction as
well as naval shipbuilding.

Materials Services
The business area is focused on the global distribution of materials and the provision of complex
technical services for the production and manufacturing sectors. In connection with the ending of all
financial links with OTK the full VDM group, the AST group with its plants and the Italian service center
as well as further stainless steel service centers in Germany, France, Spain and Turkey were assigned
to the business area with effect from February 28, 2014; effective as of July 31, 2015 the total VDM
group was disposed of again.

Steel Europe
The business brings together the premium flat carbon steel activities, from intelligent materials
solutions to finished parts.

213

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Steel Americas
This business area consists of the steel mill in Brazil (CSA). It runs the production, processing and
marketing of high-quality steel.

Corporate
Corporate comprises the Group’s head office including administration for the regions, asset
management for the Group’s real estate, and the global shared services activities. The global shared
services unit combines key locally performed functions at the Group’s internal service centers. These
are site-independent activities such as certain processes in accounting, IT, real estate services and HR.
Corporate also includes companies that cannot be allocated to the operating businesses of the
business areas.

Stainless Global
This segment was classified as a discontinued operation until its disposal as of December 28, 2012;
after the disposal at the end of the 1st quarter ended December 31, 2012, income and expense
directly related to the disposal of Stainless Global was reported in the year ended September 30, 2015.

Consolidation
Consolidation essentially contains the elimination of intercompany profits in inventories and the
reversal of intercompany interest income.
The accounting principles for the segments are the same as those described for the Group in the
summary of significant accounting principles. In accordance with the management approach which is
applicable to segment reporting all figures presented are inclusive of disposal groups and discontinued
operations. Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
thyssenkrupp’s key earnings performance indicator is EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes) and
adjusted EBIT. EBIT is calculated according to economic criteria and is independent from IFRS rules. It
provides information on the profitability of a unit and contains all elements of the income statement
relating to operating performance. This also includes items of financial income/expense that can be
characterized as operational, including income and expense from investments where there is a longterm intention to hold the assets. Adjusted EBIT is EBIT adjusted for special items, i.e. excluding
disposal losses/gains, restructuring expenses, impairment losses/impairment reversals and other nonoperating expenses and income. It is more suitable than EBIT for comparing operating performance
over several periods.

214

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Capital employed is the key indicator for capital tied up in operating activities. It mainly comprises fixed
assets, inventories and receivables. Deducted from this are certain non-interest-bearing liability items
such as trade accounts payable; cf. the following reconciliation.

S E G ME N T I N F O R M ATI O N FO R T H E YE A R E N D E D S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 5
million €

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

6,747

7,205

6,237

13,925

Steel Europe Steel Americas

Corporate

Stainless
Global1)

Consolidation

Group

46

–

0

42,778

For the fiscal year year
ended Sept. 30, 2015
Net sales
Internal sales within
the Group
Total sales
Income from companies
accounted for using the
equity method
Aggregate investment in
investees accounted for
using the equity method

7,150

1,468

6

3

19

329

1,547

305

148

–

(2,357)

0

6,753

7,208

6,256

14,254

8,697

1,773

194

–

(2,357)

42,778

(1)

1

(7)

0

32

0

8

–

0

33

0

4

129

47

121

0

2

–

0

303

EBIT

294

662

425

(38)

514

(147)

(649)

(11)

0

1,050

Adjusted EBIT

313

794

424

206

492

(138)

(414)

0

0

1,676

Average capital
employed

3,530

1,289

(1,554)

4,566

5,265

2,167

837

–

6

16,106

Depreciation and
amortization expense

309

80

64

148

409

140

45

0

(8)

1,187

Impairment losses of
intangible assets,
property, plant and
equipment and
investment property

12

16

0

175

3

0

2

0

0

208

Reversals of impairment
losses of intangible
assets, property, plant
and equipment and
investment property

0

0

0

0

2

0

0

0

0

2

Significant non-cash
items

(116)

(106)

14

(57)

(116)

2

(324)

0

1

(703)

Capital expenditures
(intangible assets,
property, plant and
equipment and
investment property)

392

83

71

114

457

86

76

0

(1)

1,278

1)

Discontinued operation

215

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

S E G ME N T I N F O R M ATI O N FO R T H E YE A R E N D E D S E P T. 3 0 , 2 0 1 6
million €

Components
Technology

Elevator
Technology

Industrial
Solutions

Materials
Services

6,802

7,465

5,732

11,601

Steel Europe Steel Americas

Corporate

Consolidation

Group

38

0

39,263

For the fiscal year year ended
Sept. 30, 2016
Net sales
Internal sales within the Group
Total sales

5

3

13

285

1,271

226

217

(2,020)

0

7,468

5,744

11,886

7,633

1,489

255

(2,020)

39,263

0

2

9

(2)

37

0

0

0

46

Aggregate investment in investees
accounted for using the equity method
Adjusted EBIT

1,263

6,807

Income from companies accounted for
using the equity method

EBIT

6,362

0

4

125

47

107

0

2

0

284

251

771

333

76

316

(22)

(542)

6

1,189

335

860

355

128

315

(33)

(497)

6

1,469

3,587

1,197

(475)

3,861

5,012

2,145

653

(46)

15,933

Depreciation and amortization expense

319

80

65

113

401

143

49

(6)

1,165

Impairment losses of intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment and
investment property

57

6

7

7

11

0

7

0

95

Average capital employed

Reversals of impairment losses of
intangible assets, property, plant and
equipment and investment property
Significant non-cash items
Capital expenditures (intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment and
investment property)

0

0

0

0

7

0

0

0

7

(109)

(146)

(141)

(52)

(113)

1

(168)

0

(729)

488

128

75

128

393

110

45

(5)

1,362

The reconciliation of the earnings figure EBIT to EBT according to the statement of income is presented
below:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N E B I T TO E B T
million €

Adjusted EBIT as presented in segment reporting
Special items
EBIT as presented in segment reporting
+ Non-operating income/(expense) from companies accounted for using the equity method

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

1,676

1,469

(626)

(280)

1,050

1,189

0

0

+ Finance income

1,320

1,030

– Finance expense

(1,811)

(1,627)

(113)

36

– Items of finance income assigned to EBIT based on economic classification
+ Items of finance expense assigned to EBIT based on economic classification
EBT-Group
– EBT of Stainless Global
EBT from continuing operations as presented in the statement of income

216

39

25

485

652

11

0

496

652

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Total assets in accordance with the consolidated statement of financial position can be reconciled to
average capital employed as follows:

R E CO N C I LI ATI O N TOTA L AS S E T S TO C A P I TA L E M P L OY E D
million €

Sept. 30, 2015

Sept. 30, 2016

Total assets

35,694

35,072

Deferred tax assets

(2,031)

(2,322)

Current income tax assets

(160)

(172)

(4,535)

(4,105)

(260)

(143)

Provisions for other non-current employee benefits

(339)

(373)

Other provisions, non-current

(906)

(589)

Cash and cash equivalents
Adjustments due to included assets classified as non-operating items
Liability items reducing capital employed:

Other non-financial liabilities, non-current
Provisions for current employee benefits

(5)

(6)

(362)

(408)

Other provisions, current

(1,066)

(963)

Trade accounts payable

(4,985)

(5,119)

Other financial liabilities, current

(1,226)

(975)

Other non-financial liabilities, current

(7,593)

(7,130)

Adjustments due to included liabilities classified as non-operating items
Capital employed as of balance sheet date
Impact from adjusting average capital employed to capital employed as of balance sheet date
Average capital employed (5-points-average)
Correction factors with increasing impact on performance requirements for positive value added
Average capital employed as presented in segment reporting

565

560

12,791

13,326

1,114

407

13,905

13,733

2,200

2,200

16,106

15,933

In presenting information for geographical areas, allocation of sales is based on the location of the
customer. Allocation of segment assets and capital expenditures is based on the location of the assets.
Capital expenditures are presented in line with the definition of the cash flow statement.
There are no individual customers that generate sales values that are material to the Group’s
consolidated net sales.

E X TE R N A L S AL E S BY R E G I O N S
million €

Germany

USA

China

Outside Germany

Group

Year ended Sept. 30, 2015

11,611

7,835

2,945

20,388

42,778

Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

10,719

6,955

2,728

18,860

39,263

External sales (location of customer)

217

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

N O N - C U R R E NT A S S E T S BY R E G I O N S 1 )
Germany

USA

Brazil

Outside
Germany

Group

Sept. 30, 2015

6,683

1,443

1,999

3,714

13,839

Sept. 30, 2016

6,458

1,422

2,197

3,876

13,953

million €

Non-current assets (intangible assets, property, plant and equipment,
investment property and other non-financial assets)
(location of assets)

1)

Inclusive of disposal groups

25 Accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements requires management estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. All estimates and assumptions are
made to the best of management’s knowledge and belief in order to fairly present the Groups financial
position and results of operations. The following accounting policies are significantly impacted by
management’s estimates and judgements.

Business combinations
As a result of acquisitions the Group recognized goodwill in its balance sheet. In a business
combination, all identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at the
date of acquisition at their respective fair value. One of the most significant estimates relates to the
determination of the fair value of these asset and liabilities. Land, buildings and equipment are usually
independently appraised while marketable securities are valued at market price. If any intangible
assets are identified, depending on the type of intangible asset and the complexity of determining its
fair value, the Group either consults with an independent external valuation expert or develops the fair
value internally, using an appropriate valuation technique which is generally based on a forecast of the
total expected future net cash flows. These evaluations are linked closely to the assumptions made by
management regarding the future performance of the assets concerned and any changes in the
discount rate applied.

Goodwill
As stated in the accounting policy in Note 01, the Group tests annually and in addition if any indicators
exist, whether goodwill has suffered an impairment loss. If there is an indication, the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit has to be estimated which is the greater of the fair value less costs
to sell and the value in use. The determination of the value in use involves making adjustments and
estimates related to the projection and discounting of future cash flows (cf. Note 04). Although
management believes the assumptions used to calculate recoverable amounts are appropriate, any
unforeseen changes in these assumptions could result in impairment charges to goodwill which could
adversely affect the future financial position and operating results.

218

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Recoverability of assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that the carrying
amounts of its property, plant and equipment, investment property or intangible assets may be
impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. The
recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. In assessing
the value in use, discounted future cash flows from the related assets have to be determined.
Estimating the discounted future cash flows involves significant assumptions, including particularly
those regarding future sale prices and sale volumes, costs and discount rates. Although management
believes that its estimates of the relevant expected useful lives, its assumptions concerning the
economic environment and developments in the industries in which the Group operates and its
estimations of the discounted future cash flows are appropriate, changes in the assumptions or
circumstances could require changes in the analysis. This could lead to additional impairment charges
in the future or to reversal of impairments if the trends identified by management reverse or the
assumptions or estimates prove incorrect.

Other provisions
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the estimation of the probability of
a future outflow of resources as well as empirical values and the circumstances known at the reporting
date. This means that the actual later outflow of resources may differ from the other provisions, cf. also
the remarks under Note 16.

Measurement of single assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued operations
Single assets held for sale as well as disposal groups and discontinued operations are measured at fair
value less costs to sell. The determination of fair value less costs to sell can be based on estimations
and assumptions of the management that carry a certain degree of uncertainty.

Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Certain Group entities, particularly in the Elevator Technology and Industrial Solutions business areas,
conduct a portion of their business under construction contracts which are accounted for using the
percentage-of-completion method, recognizing revenue as performance on the contract progresses.
This method requires accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion. Depending on
the methodology to determine contract progress, the significant estimates include total contract costs,
remaining costs to completion, total contract revenues, contract risks and other judgements. The
managements of the operating companies continually review all estimates involved in such
construction contracts and adjust them as necessary.

219

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Income taxes
The Group operates and earns income in numerous countries and is subject to changing tax laws in
multiple jurisdictions within the countries. Significant judgements are necessary in determining the
worldwide income tax liabilities. Although management believes they have made reasonable estimates
about the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome
of these matters will be consistent with what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions. Such
differences could have an effect on the income tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities in the period in
which such determinations are made.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether the realization of future tax benefits is
sufficiently probable to recognize deferred tax assets. This assessment requires the exercise of
judgement on the part of management with respect to, among other things, benefits that could be
realized from available tax strategies and future taxable income, as well as other positive and negative
factors. The recorded amount of total deferred tax assets could be reduced if estimates of projected
future taxable income and benefits from available tax strategies are lowered, or if changes in current
tax regulations are enacted that impose restrictions on the timing or extent of the Group’s ability to
utilize future tax benefits. Cf. Note 32 for further information on potential tax benefits for which no
deferred tax asset is recognized.

Employee benefits
The Group accounts for pension and other postretirement benefits in accordance with actuarial
valuations. These valuations rely on statistical and other factors in order to anticipate future events.
These factors include key actuarial assumptions including the discount rate, expected salary increases,
mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These actuarial assumptions may differ materially from
actual developments due to changing market and economic conditions and therefore result in a
significant change in postretirement employee benefit obligations, of equity and the related future
expense. (Cf. Note 15 for further information regarding employee benefits).

Legal contingencies
thyssenkrupp companies are parties to litigations related to a number of matters as described in
Note 21. The outcome of these matters may have a material effect on the financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. Management regularly analyzes current information about these matters and
provides provisions for probable contingent losses including the estimate of legal expense to resolve
the matters. For the assessments internal and external lawyers are used. In making the decision
regarding the need for loss provisions, management considers the degree of probability of an
unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the amount of loss. The
filing of a suit or formal assertion of a claim against thyssenkrupp companies or the disclosure of any
such suit or assertions, does not automatically indicate that a provision of a loss may be appropriate.

220

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Notes to the consolidated statement of income
26 Net sales
Net sales include revenues resulting from the sale of goods of €24,259 million (prior year: €26,234
million), the rendering of services of €5,243 million (prior year: €5,193 million) as well as sales from
construction contracts of €8,630 million (prior year: €9,155 million).

27 Other income
OT H E R I N COM E
million €

Gains from premiums and from grants
Insurance compensation

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

8

11

20

35

Miscellaneous

256

188

Total

284

234

Miscellaneous other income includes a multitude of minor single items resulting from the 471 (prior
year: 497) consolidated companies.

28 Other expenses
OT H E R E X PE NS E S
million €

Additions to/reversals of provisions

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

232

12

Other taxes

41

15

Miscellaneous

98

85

371

114

Total

Miscellaneous other expenses include a multitude of minor single items resulting from the 471 (prior
year: 497) consolidated companies.

29 Other gains/(losses), net
OT H E R G A I N S / ( L O S S E S ) , N E T
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Gain/(loss) on disposal of intangible assets, net

(5)

0

Gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net

(1)

5

Gain/(loss) on disposal of investment property, net

15

11

million €

Gain/(loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, net

0

6

Miscellaneous

(232)

89

Total

(223)

112

221

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Miscellaneous other gains/(losses) mainly include currency translation gains (prior year: losses) for
refund entitlements in connection with non-income taxes.

30 Government grants
In the preceding fiscal year, government grants to compensate expenses of the Group were recognized
in the amount of €15 million (prior year: €11 million).
Payment of the above-mentioned government grants is subject to certain conditions which are currently
assumed to be met.

31 Financial income/(expense), net
F I N A N C I A L I NCO M E / ( E X P E NS E ) , N E T
million €

Income from companies accounted for using the equity method
Interest income from financial receivables
Income from investments

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

33

46

122

90

71

9

Other finance income

1,127

931

Finance income

1,320

1,030

Interest expense from financial debt

(452)

(378)

Net interest cost of pensions and similar obligations

(183)

(182)

0

(1)

Expense from investments
Other finance expenses

(1,176)

(1,066)

Finance expense

(1,811)

(1,627)

(458)

(552)

Total

For the investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting cf. also Note 07.
The line item “other finance income” includes interest income from financial assets that are not
measured at fair value through profit or loss of €17 million (prior year: €20 million) and the line item
“other finance expenses” include interest expense from financial liabilities that are not measured at fair
value through profit or loss of €29 million (prior year: €26 million).
Borrowing costs in the amount of €11 million (prior year: €10 million) were capitalized during the
period which reduced interest expense from financial debt. If financing is directly allocable to a certain
investment, the actual borrowing costs are capitalized. If no direct allocation is possible, the Group’s
average borrowing interest rate of the current period is taken into account to calculate the borrowing
costs; it amounts to 4.2% for fiscal year 2015 / 2016 (prior year: 4.9%).

222

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

32 Income taxes
Income tax expense/(benefit) for the year ended September 30, 2016 and the previous year consists of
the following:

B R E A K D OW N O F I N CO ME TA X E X PE N S E /( B E NE F I T )
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

391

351

Current income tax expense/(benefit) for the reporting period
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) for the reporting period
Current income tax expense/(benefit) for prior periods
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) for prior periods
Total

(117)

115

(64)

(43)

7

(32)

217

391

The German corporate income tax law applicable for 2015 / 2016 sets a statutory income tax rate of
15.0% (prior year: 15.0%) plus a solidarity surcharge of 5.5% (prior year: 5.5%). On average, the
Group’s German companies are subject to a municipal tax rate of 15.9% (prior year: 15.8%).
Therefore, at year-end September 30, 2016, deferred taxes of German companies are calculated with a
combined income tax rate of 31.7% (prior year: 31.6%). The applicable tax rates for companies
outside Germany range from 10.0% to 39.0% (prior year: 5.7% to 38.0%). In fiscal year 2015 / 2016,
changes in foreign tax rates resulted in deferred tax expense in the amount of €5 million (prior year: €3
million).
The components of income taxes recognized in total equity are as follows:

I N CO ME TAX E S R E CO G NI Z E D I N TOTA L E Q U I T Y
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Income tax expense/(benefit) as presented on the statement of income

217

391

Income non-effective tax effect on other comprehensive income

(96)

(395)

Other income non-effective changes
Total

0

0

121

(4)

As of September 30, 2016, domestic corporate tax losses carried forward amount to €1,900 million
(prior year: €1,658 million), domestic municipal tax losses carried forward amount to €859 million
(prior year: €697 million), and interest carried forward amount to €960 million (prior year: €840
million). In addition, foreign tax losses carried forward amount to €8,228 million (prior year: €7,247
million), in particular €4,057 million (prior year: €2,974 million) in Brazil, €1,853 million (prior year:
€2,078 million) in the USA, and €928 million (prior year: €891 million) in Italy, and foreign tax credits
amount to €66 million (prior year: €65 million). In fiscal year 2015 / 2016, deferred tax expense in the
amount of €17 million (prior year: €48 million deferred tax expense) is attributable to tax losses carried
forward, interest carried forward and foreign tax credits.
As of September 30, 2016, the following deferred tax assets are recognized because these assets are
supported by substantial evidence for sufficient future taxable income: thyssenkrupp North America,

223

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Inc. (USA): €727 million (prior year: €824 million) und thyssenkrupp AG (Germany) €465 million (prior
year: €377 million).
As of September 30, 2016, tax losses carried forward for which no deferred tax asset is recognized
amount to €7,337 million (prior year: €6,022 million). According to tax legislation as of September 30,
2016, an amount of €7,189 million (prior year: €5,893 million) of these tax losses may be carried
forward indefinitely and in unlimited amounts whereas an amount of €148 million (prior year: €129
million) of these tax losses carried forward will expire over the next 20 years if not utilized.
As of September 30, 2016, unrecognized deferred tax assets for tax losses carried forward amount of
€1,976 million (prior year: €1,611 million). In addition, as of September 30, 2016, no deferred tax
assets are recognized for foreign tax credits in the amount of €1 million (prior year: €4 million) and for
deductible temporary differences in the amount of €1,566 million (prior year: €2,016 million).
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016, the benefit arising from previously unrecognized tax losses, foreign tax
credits and temporary differences that are used to reduce the Group’s tax expense amounts to €11
million (prior year: €18 million).
As of September 30, 2016, taxable temporary differences from undistributed profits of subsidiaries in
the Group for which no deferred tax liability is recognized, as such profits are not to be distributed in
the foreseeable future, amount to €439 million (prior year: €500 million).
Significant components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

I N V E N TOR Y OF D E F E R R E D TA X A S S E T S A N D L I AB I LI TI E S
Deferred tax assets
million €

Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Financial assets
Inventories

Deferred tax liabilities

Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016 Sept. 30, 2015 Sept. 30, 2016

87

91

476

500

696

696

521

452

48

70

8

31

673

451

60

39
923

Other assets

547

621

609

Accrued pension and similar obligations

636

1,265

9

1

Other provisions

628

284

295

328

Other liabilities

854

1,297

887

1,027

Tax loss carried forward

2,670

2,982

–

–

Interest carried forward

233

266

–

–

Foreign tax credits

65

66

–

–

7,137

8,089

2,865

3,301

Valuation allowance

(2,294)

(2,498)

–

–

Offsetting

(2,812)

(3,269)

(2,812)

(3,269)

2,031

2,322

53

33

Gross amount

Balance sheet amount

224

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

For fiscal year 2015 / 2016, the income tax expense of €391 million (prior year: €217 million)
presented in the financial statements is €184 million (prior year: €60 million) higher than the expected
income tax expense of €207 million (prior year: €157 million) which would result if the German
combined income tax rate of 31.7% (prior year: 31.6%) were applied to the Group’s income before
taxes. The following table reconciles the expected income tax expense/(benefit) to the income tax
expense/(benefit) presented in the statement of income.

TA X R AT E R E CO N C I LI AT I ON
million €

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
in % Sept. 30, 2016

in %

Expected income tax expense/(benefit)

157

31.6

207

31.7

Tax rate differentials to the German combined income tax rate

(19)

(3.8)

(9)

(1.4)

Changes in tax rates or laws
Change in valuation allowance
Permanent items

3

0.6

3

0.5

99

20.0

219

33.6

49

7.5

24

4.8

Tax impacts of de-consolidation of businesses

(92)

(18.6)

Tax consequences of disposal of businesses

(14)

(2.8)

(1)

(0.2)

Income/(loss) from companies accounted for using the equity
method

(10)

(2.0)

(15)

(2.3)

Non-tax effective result from foreign currency translation

76

15.3

(31)

(4.8)

Non-creditable withholding taxes

54

10.9

42

6.4

(57)

(11.5)

(75)

(11.5)

(4)

(0.7)

2

0.3

217

43.8

391

59.8

Tax benefit not related to the reporting period
Others
Income tax expense/(benefit) as presented on the statement of
income

33 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated as follows:

E A R N I NG S P E R S H AR E
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Total amount
in million €

Earnings per
share in €

Total amount
in million €

Earnings per
share in €

Income/(loss) from continuing operations (net of tax)
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

320

0.57

296

0.52

Income/(loss) from discontinued operations (net of tax)
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

(11)

(0.02)

0

0.00

Net income/(loss)
(attributable to thyssenkrupp AG’s stockholders)

309

0.55

296

0.52

Weighted average shares

565,937,947

There were no dilutive securities in the periods presented.

225

565,937,947

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

34 Additional disclosures on the consolidated statement of income
Personnel expenses included in the consolidated statement of income are comprised of:

P E R S O N N E L E X P E N SE S
Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Wages and salaries

6,576

6,829

Social security taxes

1,180

1,253

million €

Net periodic pension cost – defined benefit 1)

145

177

Net periodic pension costs – defined contribution

143

161

Other expenses for pensions and retirements

157

154

Related fringe benefits

335

368

8,536

8,942

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2015

Year ended
Sept. 30, 2016

Components Technology

29,421

30,128

Elevator Technology

51,093

51,609

Industrial Solutions

18,949

19,528

Materials Services

23,257

19,843

Steel Europe

27,527

27,385

Steel Americas

3,584

3,773

Corporate

2,977

3,318

156,808

155,584

Wage earners

84,942

82,519

Salary earners

68,222

69,553

3,644

3,512

Total
1)

Excluding net interest that is recognized as part of financial expenses.

The annual average number of employees is as follows:

A N N U A L AV E R AG E N U MB E R O F E M P L OY E E S

Total
Thereof:

Trainees

Auditors’ fees and services
For the services performed by the Group auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and the companies of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers
association the following fees (including expenses) were recognized as expenses:

226

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

F E E S O F G R OU P A U D I TO R
Year ended Sept. 30, 2015
million €

Audit fees

Year ended Sept. 30, 2016

Total

thereof
Germany

Total

thereof
Germany

14

6

14

6

3

2

3

2
0

Audit-related fees
Tax fees

1

0

1

Fees for other services

1

1

0

0

19

9

18

8

Total

The audit fees include mainly fees for the year-end audit of the consolidated financial statements, and
the statutory auditing of thyssenkrupp AG and the subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial
statements. The audit-related fees essentially comprise the auditors’ review of the interim consolidated
financial statements and the fees for due diligence services in connection with acquisitions and
disposals. The tax fees include in particular fees for tax consulting services for current and planned
transactions, for the preparation of tax returns, for tax due diligence services as well as for tax advice
in connection with projects and Group-internal reorganizations. The fees for other services are mainly
fees for project-related consulting services.

Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows
35 Additional information on the consolidated statement of cash flows
The liquid funds considered in the consolidated statement of cash flows correspond to the “Cash and
cash equivalents” line item in the consolidated statement of financial position. As of September 30, 2016
cash and cash equivalents of €146 million (prior year: €59 million) result from the joint operation HKM.

Non-cash investing activities
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016, the acquisition and first-time consolidation of companies created an
increase in non-current assets of €3 million (prior year: €214 million).
The non-cash addition of assets under capital leases in fiscal year 2015 / 2016 amounted to €1 million
(prior year: €3 million).

Non-cash financing activities
In fiscal year 2015 / 2016, the acquisition and first-time consolidation of companies resulted in an
increase in gross financial debt of €0 million (prior year: €19 million).

Subsequent events
36 Subsequent events
No reportable events occurred.

227

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Other information
37 Declarations of conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code
in accordance with Art. 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of thyssenkrupp AG issued the declaration of
conformity in accordance with Art. 161 of the Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made it publicly
available to the shareholders on the company’s website on October 1, 2016.
The declaration of conformity of our exchange-listed subsidiary Eisen- und Hüttenwerke AG was issued
on October 1, 2016 and is now publicly available to the shareholders on the company’s website.

38 Application of Art. 264 Par. 3 and Art. 264b of German Commercial Code
(HGB)
The following domestic subsidiaries in the legal form of a capital corporation or a commercial
partnership as defined in Art. 264a partly made use of the exemption clause included in Art. 264 Par. 3
and Art. 264b of German Commercial Code:

A
AWG Industrieanlagen und Wassertechnik GmbH Berlin

M
Berlin

B

Max Cochius GmbH

Berlin

MgF Magnesium Flachprodukte GmbH

Freiberg

Becker & Co. GmbH

Neuwied

P

BERCO Deutschland GmbH

Ennepetal

Peiniger International GmbH

Grünwald

Blohm + Voss Shipyards & Services GmbH

Hamburg

PSL Wälzlager GmbH

Dietzenbach

Brüninghaus Schmiede GmbH

Grünwald

R

Buckau-Walther GmbH

Grünwald

Rasselstein Verwaltungs GmbH

Neuwied

Reisebüro Dr. Tigges GmbH

Essen

D
DWR - Deutsche Gesellschaft für Weißblechrecycling mbH

Andernach

S

E

Springs and Stabilizers Holding GmbH

Essen

EH Güterverkehr GmbH

Duisburg

SVG Steinwerder Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Hamburg

ELEG Europäische Lift + Escalator GmbH

Düsseldorf

T

G
German Marine Systems GmbH

Hamburg

GND German Naval and Dockyards GmbH

Emden

H
Hellweg Liegenschaften GmbH

Bochum

I
IKL Ingenieurkonto Lübeck GmbH

Kiel

J
Jacob Bek GmbH

Ulm

K
KBS Kokereibetriebsgesellschaft Schwelgern GmbH

Duisburg

Krupp Hoesch Stahl GmbH

Dortmund

Krupp Industrietechnik Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung Grünwald

L
LiftEquip GmbH Elevator Components

Neuhausen a.d.F.

228

Tepper Aufzüge GmbH

Münster

Thyssen Liegenschaften Verwaltungs- und Verwertungs
GmbH & Co. KG Industrie

Essen

Thyssen Liegenschaften Verwaltungs- und Verwertungs
GmbH & Co. KG Stahl

Essen

Thyssen Stahl GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Academy GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Access Solutions GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Aerospace Germany GmbH

Rodgau

thyssenkrupp Aufzüge GmbH

Neuhausen a.d.F.

thyssenkrupp Aufzugswerke GmbH

Neuhausen a.d.F.

thyssenkrupp Automotive Systems GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH

Ennepetal

thyssenkrupp Business Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp DeliCate GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Edelstahl-Service-Center GmbH

Willich

thyssenkrupp Electrical Steel GmbH

Gelsenkirchen

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | thyssenkrupp AG – Notes to the consolidated financial statements

thyssenkrupp Electrical Steel Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH

Gelsenkirchen

thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Elevator Europe Africa GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Stainless GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Elevator Europe Africa Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp Elevator AG

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Steel Zweite Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp Elevator Innovation GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp System Engineering GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Facilities Services GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Technologies Beteiligungen GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Fahrtreppen GmbH

Hamburg

thyssenkrupp Transrapid GmbH

Kassel

thyssenkrupp Federn GmbH

Hagen

thyssenkrupp Uhde Engineering Services GmbH

Haltern am See

thyssenkrupp Federn und Stabilisatoren GmbH

Hagen

thyssenkrupp Valvetrain GmbH

Ilsenburg

thyssenkrupp Gerlach GmbH

Homburg/Saar

thyssenkrupp Vermietungs GmbH

Duisburg

thyssenkrupp GfT Gleistechnik GmbH

Essen

U

thyssenkrupp Group Services Ruhr GmbH

Bochum

Uhde High Pressure Technologies GmbH

thyssenkrupp Grundbesitz Verwaltungs GmbH

Essen

Uhde Inventa-Fischer GmbH

Berlin

thyssenkrupp Grundbesitz-Vermietungs GmbH & Co. KG

Essen

Uhde Services and Consulting GmbH

Dortmund

thyssenkrupp Hohenlimburg GmbH

Hagen

thyssenkrupp Immobilien Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. KG
Krupp Hoesch Stahl

Essen

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft EZM mbH

Grünwald

Essen

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft TAUS mbH

Grünwald

thyssenkrupp Immobilien Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. KG Stahl

Hagen

V

thyssenkrupp Immobilienentwicklungs Concordiahütte GmbH Oberhausen

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft TKAS mbH

Grünwald

thyssenkrupp Immobilienentwicklungs Krefeld GmbH

Oberhausen

Vermögensverwaltungsgesellschaft TKW mbH

Grünwald

thyssenkrupp Industrial Services Holding GmbH

Düsseldorf

X

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG

Hamburg

Xtend new media Holding GmbH

thyssenkrupp Information Services GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Infrastructure GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Management Consulting GmbH

Düsseldorf

thyssenkrupp Marine Systems GmbH

Kiel

thyssenkrupp Materials Processing Europe GmbH

Krefeld

thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Materials Trading EMEA GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Plastics GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Presta Chemnitz GmbH

Chemnitz

thyssenkrupp Presta Esslingen GmbH

Esslingen

thyssenkrupp Presta Ilsenburg GmbH

Ilsenburg

thyssenkrupp Presta Mülheim GmbH

Mülheim

thyssenkrupp Presta Schönebeck GmbH

Schönebeck

thyssenkrupp Rasselstein GmbH

Andernach

thyssenkrupp Raw Materials GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Regional Services Germany GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Risk and Insurance Services GmbH

Essen

thyssenkrupp Rothe Erde GmbH

Dortmund

Grünwald

The following Dutch subsidiaries made use of the exemption clause
included in Art. 2:403 of the Civil Code of the Netherlands:

T
thyssenkrupp Liften B.V.

Krimpen an den Ijssel

thyssenkrupp Nederland Holding B.V.

Roermond

thyssenkrupp Nederland Intermediate B.V.

Roermond

thyssenkrupp Slab International B.V.

Brielle

thyssenkrupp Veerhaven B.V.

Rotterdam

U
Uhde Fertilizer Technology B.V.

39 List of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests
A complete listing of the Group’s subsidiaries and equity interests is published in the German Federal
Gazette and is available on the thyssenkrupp website at www.thyssenkrupp.com.

229

Amsterdam

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

Independent Auditors’ Report
To thyssenkrupp AG, Duisburg and Essen
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of thyssenkrupp AG, Duisburg
and Essen, and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position, the
consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the
consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and notes to
the consolidated financial statements for the business year from October 1, 2015 to September 30,
2016.

Board of Managing Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial
Statements
The Board of Managing Directors of thyssenkrupp AG is responsible for the preparation of these
consolidated financial statements. This responsibility includes preparing these consolidated financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and
the supplementary requirements of German law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB
(“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code), to give a true and fair view of the net assets,
financial position and results of operations of the group in accordance with these requirements. The
Board of Managing Directors is also responsible for the internal controls as the Board of Managing
Directors determines are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted
standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer
[Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW) and additionally observed the International Standards on
Auditing (ISA). Accordingly, we are required to comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free
from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The selection of audit procedures depends on the
auditor’s professional judgment. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In assessing those risks, the
auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of the consolidated
financial statements that give a true and fair view. The aim of this is to plan and perform audit
procedures that are appropriate in the given circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating
the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made
by the Board of Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements.

230

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | Independent Auditors’ Report

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our audit opinion.

Audit opinion
According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz (sentence) 1 HGB, we state that our audit of the consolidated financial
statements has not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply in all
material respects with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German
commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets and
financial position of the Group as at September 30, 2016 as well as the results of operations for the
business year then ended, in accordance with these requirements.

Report on the Group Management Report
We have audited the accompanying group management report of thyssenkrupp AG which is combined
with the management report of the company for the business year from October 1, 2015 to September
30, 2016. The Board of Managing Directors of thyssenkrupp AG is responsible for the preparation of
the combined management report in accordance with the requirements of German commercial law
applicable pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB. We conducted our audit in accordance with § 317 Abs. 2
HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of the combined management report
promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW).
Accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the combined management report to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined management report is consistent with the
consolidated financial statements and the audit findings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the
Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
According to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz 1 HGB, we state that our audit of the combined management report has
not led to any reservations.
In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
combined management report, the combined management report is consistent with the consolidated
financial statements, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably
presents the opportunities and risks of future development.

Essen, November 21, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Prof. Dr. Norbert Winkeljohann
Auditor

Michael Preiß
Auditor

231

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
03 Consolidated financial statements | Responsibility statement

Responsibility statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the
consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and profit and loss of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a
description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the
Group.

Essen, November 15, 2016
thyssenkrupp AG
The Executive Board

Hiesinger
Burkhard

Kaufmann

Kerkhoff

232

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
Additional information

Additional information

234
236
237
239
241

Multi-year overview
Other directorships held by Executive Board members
Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members
Glossary
Contact and 2017 / 2018 financial calendar

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Multi-year overview

Multi-year overview
T H YS S E N K R UP P G R O U P
Full Group

Continuing operations
2015 / 2016
vs. 2014 / 2015

2011 / 2012 2012 / 2013 2013 / 2014 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016

Change

2015 / 2016
vs. 2014 / 2015
in % 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016

Change

in %

Results of operations
Net sales

million €

47,045

39,782

41,212

42,778

39,263

(3,515)

(8)

42,778

39,263

(3,515)

(8)

Gross profit

million €

1,713

4,786

6,205

6,874

6,625

(249)

(4)

6,874

6,625

(249)

(4)

EBITDA

million €

1,544

1,212

2,330

2,445

2,441

(4)

0

2,456

2,441

(15)

(1)

EBIT

million €

(4,370)

(552)

1,145

1,050

1,189

139

13

1,061

1,189

128

12

EBT

million €

(5,067)

(1,648)

429

485

652

167

34

496

652

156

31

Net income/(loss)

0

(8)

million €

(5,042)

(1,576)

195

268

261

(6)

(2)

Earnings per share (EPS)

€

(8.24)

(2.79)

0.38

0.55

0.52

0

(5)

0.57

0.52

Gross margin

%

3.6

12.0

15.1

16.1

16.9

1

5

16.1

16.9

1

5

EBITDA margin

%

3.3

3.0

5.7

5.6

6.2

1

11

5.7

6.2

0

8

EBIT margin

%

(9.3)

(1.4)

2.8

2.5

3.0

1

23

2.5

3.0

1

22

EBT margin

%

(10.8)

(4.1)

1.0

1.1

1.7

1

46

1.2

1.7

1

43

Return on equity
(before taxes)

%

(112.0)

(65.6)

13.4

14.7

25.0

10

70

Personnel expense
per employee

€

53,132

53,972

53,351

54,436

57,476

3,039

6

Sales per employee

€

275,193

252,631

257,069

272,805

252,356

(20,449)

(7)

Non-current assets

million €

18,301

16,817

15,992

16,220

16,604

383

2

Current assets

million €

19,983

18,480

20,438

19,474

18,468

(1,006)

(5)

Total assets

million €

38,284

35,297

36,430

35,694

35,072

(622)

(2)

Total equity

million €

4,526

2,512

3,199

3,307

2,609

(698)

(21)

Liabilities

million €

33,758

32,785

33,231

32,387

32,463

76

0

Assets/ liabilities situation

Accrued pension and
similar obligations

million €

8,086

7,376

7,122

7,654

8,754

1,101

14

Financial debt non-current million €

5,972

6,957

6,651

6,385

6,157

(229)

(4)

Financial debt current

2,181

1,914

1,071

1,570

1,455

(116)

(7)
(4)

million €

Financial debt
non-current/current

million €

8,153

8,871

7,722

7,955

7,611

(343)

Trade accounts payable

million €

5,234

3,819

4,945

4,985

5,119

134

3

%

11.8

7.1

8.8

9.3

7.4

(2)

(20)

Equity ratio
Gearing

%

128.1

200.6

114.9

103.2

134.2

31

30

Inventory turnover

days

69.9

61.5

65.8

58.4

58.1

0

0

Average collection period

days

46.5

46.4

50.4

42.7

45.9

3

8

234

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Multi-year overview

T H YS S E N K R UP P G R O U P
Full Group

Continuing operations
2015 / 2016
vs. 2014 / 2015

2011 / 2012 2012 / 2013 2013 / 2014 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016

Change

2015 / 2016
vs. 2014 / 2015
in % 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016

Change

in %

Value management
Capital employed (average)

million €

21,488

14,591

15,853

16,106

15,933

(173)

(1)

ROCE

%

(20.3)

(3.8)

7.2

6.5

7.5

1

15

Weighted average cost
of capital (WACC)

%

8.5

9.0

9.0

9.0

8.0

(1)

(11)

Cash flow/
financing situation
Operating cash flows

million €

(386)

786

903

1,300

1,387

87

7

1,311

1,387

76

6

Cash flow for investments

million €

(2,204)

(1,411)

(1,260)

(1,235)

(1,387)

(152)

(12)

(1,235)

(1,387)

(152)

(12)

Free cash flow before
divestments

million €

(2,590)

(625)

(357)

65

–

–

–

76

–

–

–

–

–

–

115

198

83

72

115

198

83

72

Cash flow from divestments

million €

854

1,221

1,054

597

191

(406)

(68)

597

191

(406)

(68)

Free cash flow

million €

(1,736)

596

697

662

191

(470)

(71)

673

191

(481)

(72)

(78)

(658)

(581)

--

Free cash flow before M & A

Cash flows from
financing activities

million €

498

1,051

(558)

(78)

(658)

(581)

--

Cash and cash equivalents

million €

2,353

3,833

4,045

4,541

4,111

(430)

(9)

Net financial debt

million €

5,800

5,038

3,677

3,414

3,500

86

3

(0.3)

4.1

4.4

2.0

1.2

(1)

(43)

(15.0)

6.4

4.1

2.6

2.5

0

(4)

million €

(3,184)

772

1,535

(122)

161

283

++

€

–

–

0.11

0.15

0.151)

–

–

million €

–

–

62

85

851)

–

–

Internal financing capability
Debt to cash flow ratio
thyssenkrupp AG
Net income/(loss)
Dividend per share
Dividend payout
1)

Proposal to the Annual General Meeting

235

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Other directorships held by Executive Board members

Other directorships held by
Executive Board members
Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger
Chairman

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG (Chair)
■ thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG (Chair)
ThyssenKrupp (China) Ltd./PR China (Chair)

▫

Oliver Burkhard
■ PEAG Holding GmbH (Chair)

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG
■ thyssenkrupp Materials Services GmbH
■ thyssenkrupp Rothe Erde GmbH (Vice Chair)
■ thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Dr. Donatus Kaufmann
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG
thyssenkrupp North America, Inc./USA (Chair)

▫

Guido Kerkhoff
Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG (Chair)
■ thyssenkrupp Materials International GmbH (Chair)

■ Membership of supervisory boards within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (as of September 30, 2016)

▫ Membership of comparable German and non-German control bodies of business enterprises within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
(as of September 30, 2016)

236

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members

Other directorships held by
Supervisory Board members
Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner, Düsseldorf

Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, Essen

Chairman // Member of the Shareholders’ Committee

Vice President of the Federation of German Industries

of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

(Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie e.V.)

■ Deutsche Telekom AG (Chair)
■ E.ON SE

■ Airbus Defence and Space GmbH
■ National-Bank AG

■ Porsche Automobil Holding SE

▫ Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

■ RWE AG
■ Voith GmbH (Chair)

Markus Grolms, Frankfurt/Main

Ernst-August Kiel, Blumenthal

Vice Chairman // IG Metall trade union secretary

Fitter // Chairman of the General Works Council of thyssenkrupp

▫ Airbus N.V./Netherlands (Board and Nomination Committee)

(Member of the Shareholders’ Committee)

Marine Systems // Chairman of the Works Council Union

Dr. Ingrid Hengster, Frankfurt/Main

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions

Member of the Executive Board

Within the Group:
thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG

▫

of KfW Bankengruppe

■ Deutsche Bahn AG

▫ European Investment Bank (EIB), Luxembourg

Dr. Norbert Kluge, Ratingen

(Expert on the Board of Directors)

Diplom-Sozialwirt // Head of Codetermination Support dept. at the
Hans Böckler Foundation

Susanne Herberger, Dresden
Engineer (FH) – information technology // Vice Chairwoman of the

Tekin Nasikkol, Ratingen

Group Works Council // Chairwoman of the Works Council Union

(since June 1, 2016)

thyssenkrupp Elevator Technology

Business Administration (Bachelor of Arts) // Vice Chairman of

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Elevator AG

the Works Council of thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG

Dr. Ralf Nentwig, Essen
Tanja Jacquemin, Frankfurt/Main

Member of the Executive Committee of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen

(since March 30, 2016)

und Halbach Foundation

▫ Margarethe Krupp-Stiftung für Wohnungsfürsorge

Dipl.-Betriebswirtin // Head of the Company Policy and

(Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board)

Codetermination Department at IG Metall

■ Porsche Holding Stuttgart GmbH
■ Porsche AG

René Obermann, Berlin

■ Vinci Energies Deutschland GmbH

Partner at Warburg Pincus LLC

■ CompuGroup Medical SE
■ E.ON SE

▫ Spotify Technology S.A./Luxembourg

237

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Other directorships held by Supervisory Board members

Prof. Dr. Bernhard Pellens, Bochum

Jens Tischendorf, Zurich

Professor of Business Studies and International Accounting, Ruhr

Partner and Director of Cevian Capital AG

University Bochum

■ Bilfinger S.E.

■ LVM Versicherung a. G.

Fritz Weber, Schöndorf
Peter Remmler, Wolfsburg

Machine setter // Chairman of the General Works Council of

Wholesale and export trader // Chairman of the Works Council of

thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH // Chairman of the Works Council Union

thyssenkrupp Schulte GmbH (Braunschweig) // Chairman of the

thyssenkrupp Components Technology

Works Council Union thyssenkrupp Materials Services

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Bilstein GmbH

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp Materials International GmbH

Isolde Würz, Mülheim/Ruhr
Carola Gräfin v. Schmettow, Düsseldorf

Attorney, Head of Governance, Corporate Function Legal at

Chairwoman of the Management Board of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt

thyssenkrupp AG

AG

■ BVV Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a.G.

▫ HSBC France S.A. Paris

Wilhelm Segerath, Duisburg
Automotive body maker // Chairman of the Group Works Council of
thyssenkrupp AG

▫ PEAG Holding GmbH (Member of the Advisory Board)

In the course of the fiscal year 2015 / 2016 the following
members left the Supervisory Board:
Dr. Sabine Maaßen at the close of March 15, 2016 and
Martin Dreher at the close of May 31, 2016. Where they held
other directorships at the time of departure these are listed below:

Dr. Sabine Maaßen, Dinslaken

Carsten Spohr, Munich

(until March 15, 2016)

Chairman of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG

Vice Chairwoman // Legal Counsel, IG Metall

■ Lufthansa Technik AG (Chair)

■ Daimler AG

▫ Dr. August Oetker KG (Member of the Advisory Board)

Martin Dreher, Heilbronn

Dr. Lothar Steinebach, Leverkusen

(until May 31, 2016)

Former member of the Management Board of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Retail clerk // Chairman of the Works Council of

■ ALTANA AG
■ Carl Zeiss AG

thyssenkrupp System Engineering GmbH (Heilbronn) //

■ Ralf Schmitz GmbH & Co. KGaA

thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions

Chairman of the Works Council Union

▫ Air Berlin PLC
▫

Within the Group:
■ thyssenkrupp System Engineering GmbH
■ thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions AG

(Member of the Board of Directors)
Diem Client Partner AG/Switzerland
(Member of the Management Board)

■ Membership of supervisory boards within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) (as of September 30, 2016)

▫ Membership of comparable German and non-German control bodies of business enterprises within the meaning of § 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
(as of September 30, 2016)

238

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Glossary

Glossary
List of definitions and abbreviations

EBT

Earnings before taxes
Average collection period

Trade accounts receivable divided by sales, multiplied by 360
(the lower the ratio, the faster customers pay)

EMIR audit

BME

European Market Infrastructure Regulation. Adopted in August
2012. Designed to make over-the-counter trading in derivatives
more transparent and secure. Compliance is audited annually.

Bundesverband Materialwirtschaft, Einkauf und Logistik e. V.
(Materials Management, Purchasing and Logistics Association)

Equity ratio

Capital employed

Ratio of total equity to balance sheet total (the higher the ratio,
the lower the indebtedness)

Interest-bearing invested capital
FCF before divestments
Cluster management

Joint strategic management of purchasing requirements
Clusters are groups of outsourced products and services that due
to their similarity (e.g. comparable technical requirements or
same suppliers) can be managed jointly

Free cash flow before divestments = Operating cash flows less
cash flows from investing activities excluding cash inflows from
divestments
FCF before M & A

Program for raising short-term debt capital on the capital market

Free cash flow before M & A = Operating cash flows less cash
flows from investing activities excluding cash inflows or outflows
from major M & A transactions

COSO

FFO/total debt

Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission
Cost of capital (WACC)

Basically, ratio of operating cash flow before changes in net
working capital to total debt (the higher the ratio, the better a
company’s ability to pay its debts from operating activities).
FFO stands for funds from operations.

Minimum return required by capital providers (Weighted Average
Cost of Capital)

Gearing

daproh

Ratio of net financial debt to total capital (the lower the ratio, the
higher the share of total equity in capital employed)

Commercial paper program

Corporate data and process harmonization project
Greater China

Mainland China, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Macau, Taiwan

EBIT

Earnings before interest and taxes
IASB

International Accounting Standards Board

EBITDA

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
IFRIC
EBIT margin

Earning power in the period under review; ratio of EBIT to sales

239

International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or
interpretations of the IFRIC

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information | Glossary

impact

Rating

Corporate program to enhance performance and execute the
corporate strategy

Ratings are used to assess the future ability of a company to
meet its payment obligations on time and in full. They are based
on an analysis of quantitative and qualitative factors.

Internal financing strength

Ratio of operating cash flows to cash flows from investing
activities

Redox flow battery

Inventory turnover

A type of accumulator that stores electrical energy in chemical
compounds, with the reaction partners present in dissolved form
in a solvent.

Inventories divided by sales, multiplied by 360 (the lower the
ratio, the faster the inventory turnover)

ROCE

Return on capital employed
Long-term incentive plan (LTI)

Long-term variable compensation for Executive Board members
and other selected executives through stock rights

STI

NAFTA

synergize+

North American Free Trade Agreement

Program for the Groupwide management of all purchasing
activities. Part of the “impact” initiative.

Short-term incentive plan

Net financial debt

Difference between the cash and cash equivalents shown in the
statement of financial position plus current other financial assets
available for sale, and non-current and current financial debt; the
corresponding assets and liabilities of the disposal groups are
also taken into account.

thyssenkrupp Value Added (tkVA)

Central indicator for value-based management, comparing
earnings before interest and taxes with cost of capital
Tons

As used in this annual report, the word tons refers to metric tons.
Operating cash flows

Inflow/outflow of cash and cash equivalents outside of investing,
divesting or financing activities
Order intake

Sum of all amounts from customer orders to be executed in the
future

240

WACC

Weighted Average Cost of Capital

thyssenkrupp annual report 2015 / 2016
04 Additional information
| Contact
and 2017
/ 2018 financial calendar
04 Additional
information
| Glossary

Contact and 2017 / 2018 financial calendar
For more information please contact:

2017 / 2018 financial calendar

Communications

January 27, 2017

Telephone: +49 201 844-536043

Annual General Meeting

Fax: +49 201 844-536041
E-mail: press@thyssenkrupp.com

February 9, 2017

Investor Relations

Interim report 1st quarter 2016 / 2017 (October to December)
Conference call with analysts and investors

E-mail: ir@thyssenkrupp.com

May 12, 2017
Institutional investors and analysts
Telephone: +49 201 844-536464

Interim report 1st half 2016 / 2017 (October to March)
Conference call with analysts and investors

Fax: +49 201 8456-531000

August 10, 2017
Private investors
Telephone: +49 201 844-536367

Interim report 9 months 2016 / 2017 (October to June)
Conference call with analysts and investors

Fax: +49 201 8456-531000

November 23, 2017
Published by
thyssenkrupp AG

thyssenkrupp Allee 1, 45143 Essen, Germany
Postfach, 45063 Essen, Germany

Annual report 2016 / 2017 (October to September)
Annual press conference
Analysts’ and investors’ conference

January 19, 2018
Telephone: +49 201 844-0

Annual General Meeting

Fax: +49 201 844-536000
E-mail: info@thyssenkrupp.com

This annual report was published on November 24, 2016.
Produced in-house using firesys.

www.thyssenkrupp.com

Concept and design: 3st kommunikation, Mainz
Photo credits: Hans-Jürgen Burkard (p. 3, p. 10); Nils Röscher, thyssenkrupp (p. 7);

Getty Images (cover, p. I.02); Shutterstock (p. I.06); all other photos: thyssenkrupp

Forward-looking statements

Rounding differences and rates of change

This document contains forward-looking statements that reflect management’s
current views with respect to future events. Such statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that are beyond thyssenkrupp’s ability to control or estimate
precisely, such as future market and economic conditions, the behavior of other
market participants, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and
achieve anticipated synergies and the actions of government regulators. If any of
these or other risks and uncertainties occur, or if the assumptions underlying any
of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different
from those expressed or implied by such statements. thyssenkrupp does not intend
or assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances after the date of these materials.

Percentages and figures in this report may include rounding differences. The signs
used to indicate rates of change are based on economic aspects: Improvements
are indicated by a plus (+) sign, deteriorations are shown in brackets ( ). Very high
positive and negative rates of change (≥500% or ≤(100)%) are indicated by ++ and
−− respectively.

241

Variances for technical reasons
Due to statutory disclosure requirements the Company must submit this annual
report electronically to the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). For technical reasons
there may be variances in the accounting documents published in the Federal
Gazette.
German and English versions of the annual report can be downloaded from the
internet at www.thyssenkrupp.com. In the event of variances, the German version
shall take precedence over the English translation.

www.thyssenkrupp.com

