2015 report

Contents

2

Introduction
About TUI Group
Approach
Governance
Materiality
Stakeholders
Better Holidays, Better World
The customer journey
Highlights
Indices and awards

3
4
5
6
8
9
10
11
12
13

Step lightly
Introduction
Aviation
Cruise
Ground operations

14
15
16
20
22

Make a difference
Introduction
Hotels
Human rights
Customers
Colleagues
Destination Services

24
25
26
29
30
31
32

Lead the way
Introduction
Innovation
Skills and education
Collaboration

34
35
36
38
40

Better Holidays, Better World 2015 Progress
Data

42
45

Introduction

the world’s leading tourism business, TUI recognises that the tourism sector
“ Asshares
responsibility for sustainable development and we actively engage in
Only by helping to make the world a better place can holidays
keep getting better – it really is that simple.
We will work tirelessly to create experiences that are more
responsible and more enjoyable, one holiday at a time.
By stepping lightly
and reducing the impact of holidays on the environment;
By making a positive difference
for people and their communities;
We will lead the way
in pioneering sustainable tourism so that travel and
sustainability really can become inseparable.

many ways to support this. We see the societal and economic potential of
tourism to benefit people throughout the world. For us, environmental and social
sustainability are two sides of the same coin.
Our ambitious sustainability strategy, ‘Better Holidays, Better World 2015-2020’,
illustrates the depth of our engagement. Stretching to 2020, the strategy is
anchored in all levels of our organisation and guides our actions. The progress
achieved in the first year of our strategy has been encouraging. We are
determined to maintain momentum and to continue to invest in opportunities
that tourism offers to people worldwide. The essence of our holiday promise is at
stake: attractive destinations with unspoilt nature, thriving communities, enticing
culture and healthy economies.
Sustainable development is integrated into our Vision, ‘Think Travel, Think TUI’.
‘We are mindful of the importance of travel and tourism for many countries in the
world and the people living there. We partner with these countries and help shape
their future – in a committed and sustainable manner’.
Fritz Joussen, CEO, TUI Group

“

That’s what we mean when we say
Better Holidays, Better World.

In this report, published in July 2016, we reflect on our successes and challenges from
the first year of our Better Holidays, Better World strategy and share performance
data for the 2015 financial year* (1st October 2014 to 30 September 2015) as well as
progress to date in some areas.
To find out more about sustainability at TUI Group, visit: www.tui-sustainability.com
*Data for the 2015 financial year is referred to throughout this report as 2015 or FY2015.

3

About TUI Group
Every year, TUI Group takes millions of people on holiday. Whether it’s a cruise, a beach
resort or an adventure on the other side of the world, we offer a fantastic range of
unique holiday experiences.

The world’s leading tourism business at a glance*

TUI Group Vision
Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing
foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens people’s minds. At TUI we
create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and
make their dreams come true.
We are mindful of the importance of travel and tourism for many countries
in the world and the people living there. We partner with these countries
and help shape their future – in a committed and sustainable manner.
Think Travel. Think TUI.

the publication of our sustainability strategy a year ago, we have
“ Since
worked hard to achieve our ambitious 2020 targets. We have been able
to improve our carbon efficiency and have implemented countless
initiatives to minimise our environmental footprint.
A further milestone was the launch of the TUI Care Foundation as
a group-wide vehicle through which to channel and develop TUI’s
community engagement. Operating in more than 100 countries
worldwide, TUI has great international reach. However, we also have
strong European roots, and hence TUI Care Foundation is based in the
Netherlands – a country where sense of responsibility in both business
and in individuals is strongly anchored.
Tourism is one of the most efficient ways of supporting the economic
development and prosperity of countries and societies. Our charity will
establish projects which promote sustainable development in destinations
throughout the world. An emphasis will be on those countries which
most need our support and where we can involve our own colleagues
and experienced local partners. A key focus will be to create better
opportunities for young people through education and vocational training.
However, TUI Care Foundation will also extend its efforts to safeguard
unspoilt nature and environment through investment in innovative projects.
As Chair of the Trustees of TUI Care Foundation I look forward to
contributing, through the Foundation, to the support of societal
development in many countries worldwide – to the benefit of both local
people and to their visitors from around the world.
* Based on numbers from FY2015
** As of 10th December 2015

4

Thomas Ellerbeck,
Member of the Group Executive Committee,
Group Corporate & External Affairs, TUI Group

“

Better Holidays, Better World framework

OUR APPROACH

Travel and tourism accounts for 10% of the world’s
GDP and is growing fast – the UN World Tourism
Organization predicts that worldwide international
arrivals will rise from 1.1 billion in 2014 to 1.8 billion by
2030. Our industry employs 284 million people – one
in every 11 jobs – and is the main source of foreign
exchange for a third of developing countries.
The travel and tourism sector can be a powerful force
for good. Done well, it fosters wellbeing, creates jobs,
boosts economic growth, protects and conserves
habitats and nurtures cultural understanding. Tourism is
specifically mentioned in three of the recently adopted
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – SDGs
8, 12 and 14 – and has an important role to play in
achieving many others (see Materiality on page 8 for
more detail on the SDGs).
To fulfil this promise, travel and tourism must manage
its impacts. That means tackling our industry’s carbon
footprint – which accounts for 5% of global carbon
emissions – addressing local challenges like water and
waste, and ensuring fair work and respect for human
rights throughout the value chain.

As the world’s leading tourism business, TUI Group is committed to making our sector
more sustainable. Our Better Holidays, Better World strategy is built around three core
pillars. These are areas where we need to make a positive impact to create change at scale
– in our own operations, through our value chain and customers, and across the wider
industry and beyond.

step
lightly

Reducing the environmental
impact of holidays through
our own operations

make

Creating positive change for people
and communities through our
value chain and customers

lead
the way

Pioneering sustainable tourism
influencing the wider industry
and beyond

1. Step lightly
The starting point for Better Holidays, Better World is to reduce the environmental impact
of our own operations, where we have the greatest level of control – our airlines, hotels,
cruises, coaches, shops and offices. We will operate the most carbon-efficient airlines in
Europe, and cut the carbon intensity of our operations by 10% by 2020.
2. Make a difference
Our products are the special and memorable holidays we create for our customers. We
can exert a strong influence over the sustainability impacts of our holidays by working
with customers, colleagues, and the partners and suppliers who manage the hotels and
excursions we offer. We will deliver 10 million ‘greener and fairer’ holidays per year by 2020,
enabling more local people to share in the benefits of tourism.
3. Lead the way
We want to be at the forefront of innovation and investment in sustainable tourism, and will
use our influence to drive sustainability and spread the word throughout our industry and
beyond. We will invest €10 million per year by 2020, to support good causes and enhance
the positive impacts of tourism, using the TUI Care Foundation to support this work.

5

Managing sustainability
Senior management commitment is an
essential ingredient to lead the leisure travel
sector in sustainable development. At TUI
we have a supportive leadership team which
understands that sustainability is core to the
Group’s business success.

Governance

In March 2015, the Senior Leadership
Team met for the first time as TUI Group. A
dedicated session was held on sustainability
to provide input to our new Better Holidays,
Better World strategy, which was launched in
September 2015. Thomas Ellerbeck, Group
Director Corporate & External Affairs, is the
sustainability sponsor on the Group Executive
Committee. During 2015 and early 2016,
presentations were made to Fritz Joussen, TUI
CEO, the Executive Committee and the various
operational Boards on the new sustainability
strategy, including findings from the innovative
joint impact measurement study conducted by
TUI with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and
the Travel Foundation (see page 36). Close
collaboration with senior management helps
to ensure our business and sustainability
strategies are aligned.

“

We have a committed
and passionate team of
professionals to drive
sustainability performance
throughout our business

Jane Ashton,
Director of Sustainability
6

“

Our Group Sustainable Development team
is based in Germany and the UK and headed
up by Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability.
Its role is to drive uptake of more sustainable
business practices across the TUI Group
and raise the leadership bar in our industry
sector. The team works with a network
of Sustainable Development Managers
in each key source market and business
unit to implement our strategy, supported
by a network of sustainability champions.
The team connects via bi-annual, face-toface sustainability conferences, monthly
conference calls and dedicated working
groups on specific topics such as sustainable
accommodation, customer communication
and animal welfare.

Responsibility for ensuring that each
operating business complies with the Group’s
policy on sustainable development lies with
the Managing Director of each business.

RISK MANAGEMENT
Good business management means acting
responsibly, in line with the evolving demands
of legislation and society – and an important
part of this is identifying and managing our
risks effectively.
Policy and mitigation for sustainability risks
across the TUI Group are jointly facilitated
by Group Risk Management and Group
Sustainable Development, in cooperation
with our business units. To monitor the risk
landscape, TUI draws on a range of insight
including global risks identified by the World
Economic Forum (WEF) and World Travel and
Tourism Council (WTTC).
Key areas of risk we’ve identified include:
• Increasing legislative and societal demands
regarding management and intensity of the
TUI Group carbon footprint.
• TUI Group’s sustainable development policy
is not effectively implemented by colleagues.
• TUI Group’s environmental and social
supplier standards are not upheld across
the supply chain.
• L imited sector understanding of the socioeconomic impacts of tourism.
•D
 amage to, and quality of, destinations
due to ecosystem degradation and climate
change.
•G
 rowing customer expectations regarding
sustainability issues.

OUR POLICIES

PRINCIPAL RISKS
Our Sustainability targets also form part of TUI Group’s Principal Risks (see the risk
report on pages 97–114 of our 2015 Annual Report www.tuigroup.com).

Nature of
the risk

Our focus is to reduce the
environmental impact of our
holidays, creating positive
change for people and
communities and pioneer
sustainable tourism across
the world.
There is a risk we are
not successful in driving
forecast environmental
improvements across
our operations, that our
suppliers do not uphold
our sustainability standards
and we fail to influence
destinations to manage
tourism more sustainably.
If we do not maximise
our positive impact on
destinations and minimise
the negative impact on the
environment to the extent
that our stakeholders expect,
this could result in decline
in stakeholder confidence,
reduction in demand for
our products and services
and loss of competitive
advantage.

Mitigating factors

 eveloped and launched the ‘Better
-D
Holidays, Better World’ 2020 sustainability
strategy framework.
-D
 edicated sustainability teams integrated
in each key business working closely with
other stakeholders to implement the
sustainability strategy.
-O
 perating the most carbon efficient
airlines in Europe with continued
investment in new more efficient aircraft
(e.g. Boeing 787 Dreamliner) and cruise
ships (e.g. Mein Schiff 3 & 4).
- Implemented certified environmental
management system, with 5 of our airlines
having achieved ISO 14001 certification.
- Increased measures to influence
accommodation suppliers to achieve
third-party sustainability certification
recognised by the Global Sustainable
Tourism Council (GSTC).
 ontinuing to invest in projects to drive
-C
innovation such as the ecoDemonstrator
partnership with Boeing and groundbreaking total impact measurement study
in collaboration with PwC and the Travel
Foundation to shape future strategy.

Our vision and approach to sustainable development are set out in our Sustainable Development
Policy. Our Group policies and/or guidelines also cover child protection and animal welfare,
anti-discrimination, grievance and whistle-blowing procedures, health & safety, anti-bribery &
corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest, data protection and security, sanctions, supplier standards,
employee conduct and third-party due diligence.
Group Sustainable Development Policy
As a leading travel company, we recognise that the environment, communities and cultures within
which we operate are vital to the success of our business.
The TUI Group vision outlines our commitment to sustainability: ‘We are mindful of the importance
of travel and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner with
these countries and help shape their future – in a committed and sustainable manner.’
We therefore commit in the long term to:
• Embed sustainable development principles into core business practices throughout TUI Group.
• Use the collective influence of TUI Group to drive sustainability within the leisure travel industry.
• Understand and respect the needs of our stakeholders, including customers, colleagues,
shareholders, suppliers, industry partners and local communities.
• Comply with all relevant legislation, act in advance of it where possible, and keep pace with best
practice.
• Deliver long-term strategic benefit and shareholder value by maximising the opportunities that
sustainable development presents.
In support of the above, we will work to:
• Prevent pollution wherever possible, and continually improve our environmental performance,
specifically by reducing our carbon emissions through work programmes with our airlines, cruise
operations, hotels, ground transport and office premises.
• Optimise our holidays’ environmental, economic and social impact, by embedding sustainability
into our supply chain and initiating activities that protect and restore the natural environment,
biodiversity and enhance local livelihoods.
• Provide information, training and support to colleagues, gaining their commitment to taking
action on sustainable development issues.
• Encourage our customers to choose more sustainable travel options, and to take action to
reduce their negative impacts and maximise their positive impacts in destinations.
• Report progress against our sustainability strategy.

7

OUR IMPACTS

MATERIALITY

To make sure we tackle our biggest impacts and
the issues that matter most to stakeholders, TUI
draws on a wide range of inputs, including industry
studies, global trends and feedback from our
stakeholders.
The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC)
identifies eight main issues of importance to the
travel and tourism sector:
• Climate Change
• Community
• Energy
• Governance, Risk And Compliance (GRC)
• Supply Chain
• Waste
• Water
• Workforce
We also refer to the Top 10 Global Risks facing
businesses identified by the World Economic
Forum, including climate change, water crises,
unemployment and biodiversity loss.

8

During 2015, we consulted internal and
external stakeholders, including academics,
industry groups, suppliers, NGOs, consultants
and UN bodies to refine our new Better
Holidays, Better World strategy. Discussions
focused on how a leading tourism business
can show real leadership in sustainable
tourism, and responses helped define TUI’s
sustainability ambitions for 2020.
A top priority is tackling travel and tourism’s
carbon footprint, which accounts for 5% of
global carbon emissions. Half of that footprint
comes from aviation, making fuel reduction
and investment in more sustainable fuel a
critical challenge for our sector.
MEASURING TOURISM’S IMPACT –
A MILESTONE
A significant step forward in 2015 in terms of
identifying and measuring our impacts more
effectively was the TIMM research project (see
page 36). As well as confirming greenhouse
gas emissions and waste as key priorities,
the study pinpointed a need to work closely
with destination governments to develop
integrated strategies and metrics. It also
highlighted three clear ways to maximise our
positive impacts on destinations:
• Increase local sourcing of food and
beverages in our hotels and facilitate greater
access to our customers for local businesses
and service providers.
• Support skills development and training
for those working in our hotels, particularly
through work placements for tourism and
hospitality students.
• Influence destination governments to
develop effective sustainable tourism
strategies to protect biodiversity, their local
environment, communities and culture.

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
From 2016, the world has committed to
achieve 17 global Sustainable Development
Goals by 2030 and the private sector has
a key role to play. Sustainable tourism is
specifically mentioned in three of the goals
– SDG 8 on decent work and economic
growth, SDG 12 on responsible consumption
and production and SDG 14 on life below
water. In addition, our sector can make a big
contribution to other goals, including SDG 1
on poverty, SDG 5 on gender equality and
SDG 13 on climate action.
With global adoption of these goals, creating
jobs, promoting local culture and products,
and developing and implementing tools to
monitor the sustainable development impacts
of tourism will be an ongoing focus for our
industry and for TUI.
www.sustainabledevelopment.un.org

engaging stakeholders

STAKEHOLDERs

To help us develop as a business and improve
our sustainability strategy, we communicate
regularly with people who have an interest in
our company and its activities.
Our stakeholders include customers,
colleagues, investors, industry partners,
academia, suppliers, destination partners and
communities, governments, non-governmental
organisations and experts in sustainable
tourism. In 2015, issues of interest included
carbon emissions from our airlines, sustainable
aviation fuels, the impacts of cruise tourism,
water and waste, sustainable management of
hotels, local procurement and human rights.

Sustainability was covered at
the TUI Group 2016 AGM

Destination stakeholder council
in Cape Verde

ADVOCATES FOR SUSTAINABILITY
TUI executives often speak about sustainable
tourism at events where we interact with a
wide range of stakeholders. Examples of our
public engagements include:
• Dutch Travel Fair in Utrecht, Netherlands
• ITB (International Tourism Bourse) in
Berlin, Germany
• COP21 Summit in Paris, France
•W
 orld Summit on Sustainable Tourism in
Basque, Spain
•W
 orld Travel and Tourism Council’s Global
Summit in Dallas, US
• World Travel Market in London, UK

We also worked with Forum for the Future
to rank issues internally. As a tourism
group flying 140 aircraft, our position on
aviation and climate change is particularly
important. In 2015 we partnered with several
stakeholders whose insight and guidance
helped us develop our position, including CDP,
the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group
(SAFUG) and Sustainable Aviation.
We are aware of the pressures tourism can
place on local populations and resources and
are partnering with communities, governments
and others to support sustainable
management of our destinations. In 2015
we engaged with the Global Sustainable
Tourism Council, the Dutch Association of
Travel Agents & Tour Operators, Deutscher
ReiseVerband, the UK’s travel industry
association ABTA, German development
agency GIZ, and The Travel Foundation.

The 2015 Senior Leadership
Team meeting included a
sustainability workshop

Sustainability presented at
a TUI political lounge event

In 2016, we will commission consumer
research on sustainable tourism to better
understand consumer perceptions,
awareness, behaviour change and response
to sustainability messaging.

9

Better Holidays,
Better World

ntal
Reducing the environme
ays
lid
ho
of
ct
pa
im

Ambitions by 2020

Commitments by 2020

We will operate Europe’s
most carbon-efficient
airlines and reduce the
carbon intensity of our
operations by 10% by 2020

1) We will drive environmental improvements
across our aviation operations
2) We will drive environmental improvements
across our cruise operations
3) We will drive environmental improvements
across our ground operations

Creating posi
people and cotive change for
mmunities

We will deliver 10 million
greener and fairer holidays
per year by 2020, enabling
more local people to share
in the benefits of tourism

4) We will work with hotel suppliers to
increase their positive impact on the local
community and to protect the environment
5) We will showcase world-class sustainability
standards across our own TUI hotels and
concept partner hotels
6) We will help customers and colleagues to
create positive change

sustainable
Pioneering oss the world
tourism acr

We will invest €10 million
per year by 2020, to
support good causes
and enhance the positive
impacts of tourism, using
the TUI Care Foundation
to support this work

7) We will innovate for a more sustainable
future for tourism, and share our findings with
the industry
8) We will invest in youth, tourism skills
and education to create employment
opportunities in our source markets and
destinations
9) We will collaborate with destinations on the
sustainable management of tourism

10

The customer
journey
We want to make sure that every holiday we
offer contributes to a better world, and we
can only do that by working to increase our
positive impacts and decrease our negative
impacts across the whole customer journey.

Supporting our hotels to
achieve best practice
sustainability standards

Flying Europe’s most
carbon-efficient
aircraft
Reducing
CO2 from
our shops

Promoting
greener and
fairer holidays

Enabling
colleagues to be
ambassadors for
sustainable
tourism

H O T E L

Operating our
cruise ships
more efficiently

Creating more
sustainable
holidays

Greening our
coach fleet

Engaging
customers with
sustainable
tourism

Investing in
tourism skills
and education

Creating more
sustainable
excursions

Enabling local
people to
benefit from
tourism

Working with destinations on the
sustainable management of tourism

Protecting biodiversity
and championing
animal welfare

11

highlights

“

*the most carbon efficient airlines
in Europe

I’m pleased to share here some of the highlights
from our Better Holidays, Better World strategy.

*than comparable ships

*in the UK and Germany

*through customers staying in hotels
with sustainability certifications

*managing their socio-economic and
environmental impacts

*contributions from our businesses,
colleagues and customers

*Measuring Tourism’s Impact study

Over the past year we also succeeded in embedding
sustainability into much of our day to day business
across the newly combined TUI Group.
One of our ambitions is to raise customer demand
for sustainable tourism. A particularly exciting
development was seeing 500,000 customers discover
the heart of their destination and support the local
economy through the TUI Collection excursion
programme. A focus for 2016 is getting the right
messaging to engage more customers in ‘greener
and fairer’ holidays.
Two important milestones in 2015 were the launch
of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and
the Paris agreement on Climate Change – two
frameworks against which the actions of all major
players in society - public and private – will be
measured in years to come. TUI Group welcomes
these developments and our ‘Better Holidays, Better
World’ strategy will drive us to further futureproof
our business and deliver continuous improvement.
Jane Ashton,
Director of Sustainability, TUI Group

*between 2012 and 2015

“

*bringing benefits to local people
12

INDICES AND AWARDS
TUI has a strong track record of sustainability engagement
and we are proud to have been recognised over many years
by leading experts in the field. Recent achievements from
2015 to date include:

CDP CLIMATE CHANGE
In 2015, TUI achieved a perfect
score of 100 for climate change
disclosure and was included in
the UK’s FTSE 350 and DACH’s
Climate Disclosure Leadership
Indices (CDLI). TUI also received
an ‘A-‘ grade for performance
relating to climate change issues.
Dow Jones
Sustainability Index
TUI is the only tourism group
to feature in the reputable
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Europe.

1.

TUI UK was the first travel
company in the UK to
achieve the new Travelife
certification for Tour
operators in 2014

TUI UK achieved ISO 50001
certification for energy
management in 2015

6.

Jetairfly achieved ISO 14001
certification for its airline in
2015

7.
2.

TUI was shortlisted in the
Sustainable Transport
category of the 2014
Sustainability Leaders Awards

TUIfly Netherlands achieved
the Sustainability Award at
the 2014 & 2015 Amsterdam
Airport Schiphol Awards

Thomson Airways was
awarded ‘best aviation
programme for carbon
reduction’ at the 2014 World
Responsible Tourism Awards
Our brands in Sweden
(Fritidsresor), Denmark and
Norway (Star Tours) were
ranked most sustainable
travel company in the 2015
and 2016 Sustainable Brand
Index

TUIfly Netherlands was
shortlisted for the ‘Green
Feather’ award at the 2015
Dutch Travel Feather Awards

TUIfly in Germany was
awarded the world’s ‘most
climate-efficient charter
airline’ in the 2015 atmosfair
Airline Index for the third
year in a row

10.

TUI Group was shortlisted
for the 2015 2Degrees
Corporate Reporting
Category Award

15.

TUI Nederland won the 2016
Sustainable Travel Award at
the TM Travel Awards

16.

TUI Group was a finalist in
the Innovation category of
the WTTC’s 2016 Tourism for
Tomorrow Award

11.

12.

8.

4.

9.

TUI Group was shortlisted
for the 2015 BusinessGreen
Leaders Awards, Company of
the Year category

3.

FTSE4Good
TUI is listed on the FTSE4Good
Index in recognition of our
transparency and for meeting
strict social, environmental and
governance standards.

Other indices
TUI is also listed in the sustainability indices STOXX Global
ESG Leaders and ECPI Ethical Index €uro.

5.

TUI Group ranked in the top
10 companies in the UK for
carbon reporting in 2015 by
Carbon Clear

17.

Jane Ashton won an award
at the inaugural 2016 Global
Awards for Empowered
Women in Tourism, in
association with the UNWTO,
ITB Berlin and International
Institute for Peace through
Tourism (IIPT) India

13.

TUI UK was awarded ‘best
innovation for carbon
reduction’ at the 2015 World
Responsible Tourism Awards

14.

TUI Belgium won the most
Sustainable Tour Operator
Award at the 2015 TM Travel
Awards

18.

TUI Nederland won the Costa
Partner Award for Sustainable
Tourism in 2016

13

• Introduction
• Aviation
• Cruise
• Ground operations

Reducing
environmental
impact
14

We will operate Europe’s
most carbon-efficient
airlines and reduce the
carbon intensity of our
operations by 10% by 2020

Reducing the
environmental impact
of holidays
Among the most significant environmental
impacts of tourism are carbon emissions,
water and energy use, and waste. Working
with suppliers on responsible sourcing is
also vital.
As highlighted by the climate talks in
Paris in December 2015, and SDG 13
on combatting climate change, reducing
greenhouse gases is an urgent global
challenge. Action in the next five to ten
years is critical for rolling back global
emissions and moving towards a lowercarbon economy.

*the most carbon efficient
airlines in Europe

Managing TUI’s carbon footprint makes
good business sense as well. Reducing
energy and fuel use saves money: improved
management of energy, natural resources
and fuel across the Group saved a total of
€63 million between 2012 and 2015.*
In the long term, combating climate change
is also critical for our industry. To continue
to sell quality holiday experiences, we
rely on beautiful, biodiverse destinations,
thriving communities, stable weather
systems and personal comfort, all of which
are at risk from climate change.
Our carbon management programme
covers aviation, hotels, cruise, offices, retail
shops and ground transport emissions, and
each area of our business has clear targets
for improvement.

TUI is a company with a significant carbon
footprint – a total of 6,889,276 tonnes of
CO2 in 2015. We are encouraged by the
Paris Agreement and acknowledge the need
to transition to a lower-carbon economy
by stepping up efforts to reduce the
environmental impacts of our operations.

* An approximate figure of savings tracked from
2012-2015, gross of upfront investments. Part of
previously identified cost savings.

Ambition by 2020

2015 PROGRESS

We will operate Europe’s most
carbon-efficient airlines and
reduce the carbon intensity of
our operations by 10% by 2020

TUI airlines’ carbon emissions were 66.0g
per revenue passenger kilometre (gCO2/RPK)
in 2015 – a 2.3% reduction over 2014 (our
baseline year). In the 2015 atmosfair Airline
Index, TUIfly Germany was independently
ranked the world’s most climate-efficient
charter airline, for the third year in a row. We
are on average 30% more efficient than the
industry norm in Europe (see page 17).

As measured in terms of TUI airlines’ average
carbon emissions per revenue passenger
kilometre (gCO2/RPK), benchmarks against
other airlines in Europe, independent rankings,
and carbon intensity metrics from our cruise
and ground operations (TUI Hotels & Resorts
and ground transport).

15

Commitments by 2020

1) We will drive
environmental
improvements across
our aviation operations
1.1 We will reduce TUI airlines carbon
emissions per passenger km by 10%
2015 PROGRESS
In 2015, TUI airlines’ carbon emissions per
passenger km were 66.0g (gCO2/RPK), a 2.3%
reduction compared with 2014 (67.6g).

AVIATION
Global aviation is a growing industry with a substantial carbon
footprint. Our airlines and aviation accounted for a total of
5,615,386 tonnes of CO2 in 2015 (more than 80% of our carbon
footprint). Mitigating the climate impact of aviation is therefore
one of TUI’s biggest sustainability challenges.
TUI airlines is Europe’s 7th largest airline fleet, numbering
more than 140 aircraft across six airlines and flying about
13 million customers per year. Our tour operator airlines are
TUIfly Germany, TUIfly Nordic, TUIfly Netherlands, Jetairfly and
Thomson Airways.
To leverage scale and efficiency gains, we are building a common
aviation platform for our five tour operator airlines. Through One
Aviation we expect to benefit from shared airline operations,
engineering and maintenance, ground operations, supplier
management, procurement and sustainability best practice.
Environmental management will be aligned across our airline
and managed within Flight Operations, with a team responsible
for common operating procedures across all five airlines.
Our airlines are already the most carbon-efficient in Europe,
and we actively back new, carbon-saving technologies and
progressive climate policies for aviation.
On average, TUI airlines emit 30% less carbon dioxide than
the industry norm in Europe (see chart on page 17). Over the

16

1.2 All TUI airlines will be ISO 14001 certified
past six years, we have reduced our carbon emissions per
passenger km by more than 10% and we have committed to
reduce this by a further 10% by 2020. 2014 is the baseline
for the Better Holidays, Better World strategy and TUI uses
the European Standard (EN 16258-2012) methodology for
calculating emissions.
Between 2014 and 2015, we achieved a 2.3% CO2 reduction
per passenger km by investing in more fuel-efficient aircraft,
identifying ways to conserve fuel, and flying with higher
passenger capacities.
However, over the 2015 financial year, TUI Group’s total
emissions rose slightly year-on-year in absolute terms, due to
growth in our airlines and aviation segment and introduction of
a new cruise ship (see page 20).
The aviation industry needs to work together to create a
cleaner future, including fulfilling IATA’s goal for carbon neutral
growth from 2020 onwards. TUI supports a global framework
to manage carbon emissions in the travel and tourism sector
and we welcome efforts by the International Civil Aviation
Organisation (ICAO) to develop a global market-based
mechanism for aviation by 2020. Ultimately, the industry must
work towards a more sustainable alternative to kerosene.
Read about our engagement with sustainable aviation fuels on
page 37.

2015 PROGRESS
All five of our tour operator airlines are now ISO
14001 certified, covering 95% of our aircraft.

1.3 Our airlines will source food, beverages
and other supplies responsibly
2015 PROGRESS
Several of our airlines offer a number of
responsibly-sourced products onboard. A
working group has been established to define
and implement common standards across our
tour operating airlines.

1.4 We will segregate cabin waste and work
with destination airports to improve
waste management and recycling
2015 PROGRESS
All our airlines are separating waste to some
degree, but a key challenge is the waste
management practices at source market and
destination airports. A working group has been
established to focus on this commitment.

GLOBAL RECOGNITION

FUEL EFFICIENCY

Our airlines have achieved global recognition for efficiency.

A key part of reducing our carbon footprint is improving the
fuel efficiency of our aircraft fleet. We do this in three main
ways: smarter management of customer and cargo load factors;
technical innovation; and investment in state-of-the-art aircraft.

In 2015, TUIfly in Germany was named ‘‘most climate-efficient
charter airline in the world” for the third year in a row by the
2015 atmosfair Airline Index. Thomson Airways ranked second
most climate-efficient in the medium and long-haul categories
after TUIfly.
www.atmosfair.de
Thomson Airways also won “best aviation programme for
carbon reduction” at the World Responsible Tourism Awards
in late 2014.
www.responsibletravel.com

Carbon footprint

TUI
Group’s
carbon
footprint

Examples of fuel efficiency measures include:
• 100% of applicable aircraft in our fleet have either fuel-saving
split scimitar winglets or blended winglets. Blended winglets
reduce fuel burn by up to 5%.
• Being the first in Europe to use the new innovative split
scimitar winglets on the B737 NG aircraft. Split scimitar
winglets reduce fuel burn by an additional 1%.
• Flying with high passenger load factors (ensuring that each
flight is as full as possible).
• Employing operational efficiencies such as single-engine
taxiing, continuous descent approaches and optimised flight
planning.

TUI airlines’ carbon efficiency versus the largest
airlines in Europe*
Airlines & Aviation 81.5%
Cruise		
9.3%
Hotels & Resorts 7.4%
Other*		
1.0%
Major Premises 0.6%
Ground Transport 0.3%

Source

CO2 [t] Absolute figures
(tonnes of carbon dioxide)

Airlines and aviation

5,615,386

Hotels and resorts
Cruises
Major premises / shops
Ground transport
Other (scope 3)*
Total

510,492
639,119
38,115
17,761
68,403
6,889,276

* Indirect emissions from our value chain including business travel by air

95.0g

European Scheduled airlines (average)
80.0g

European Budget airlines (average)
66.0g

TUI airlines (average)

Breakdown of TUI Group’s carbon
footprint in FY2015

0

20

TUI airlines – Carbon intensity (gCO2/RPK)

96.3g

Global airlines (average)**

40

60

80

• Replacing fluorescent tubes with LED lighting in the cabin.
• Reducing weight on our aircraft through lighter catering
trolleys and seats, replacing heavier sales computers with iPads,
electronic flight bags, carbon brakes and optimising the amount
of water and goods carried on board.
• Achieving maintenance efficiencies through engine wash
programmes, lighter paint, and surface sealant applications that
reduce drag on the aircraft by stopping dirt and grime from
sticking to it.

100

gC02/RPK (grams of C02 per revenue passenger kilometre)

*  Data from the 4 largest budget and 4 largest scheduled airlines in
Europe based on passenger numbers. Latest publicaly available data,
May 2016.
** Global airlines emissions metrics, taking an average of short & long haul
operations (UK Government).

FY2015

FY2014

Var.%

TUI airline fleet

66.0

67.6

-2.3

Corsair International

79.8

82.3

-3.0

Jetairfly

69.6

70.0

-0.6

Thomson Airways

63.7

64.8

-1.7

TUIfly Germany

63.4

63.8

-0.6

TUIfly Netherlands (Arkefly)

63.8

69.0

-7.5

TUIfly Nordic

60.6

62.6

-3.2

RPK = Revenue Passenger Kilometre
NB. W
 hen calculating the carbon-efficiency (relative or intensity metric) the
focus is on ‘Revenue’ flights, i.e. RPK. This includes all flights conducted
under TUI airlines flight numbers. It excludes sub-charters flying for
TUI airlines; sub-charters TUI fly for other airlines; positioning flights
(but includes ferry flights); ad hoc flights such as for training, technical,
all-cargo.

17

*between 2012 and 2015
18

STATE-OF-THE-ART AIRCRAFT

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

We operate a modern fleet with an average age of less than
eight years. We also continue to invest in the latest cuttingedge aircraft. TUI was the launch customer for the Boeing
787 Dreamliner in the UK, Belgium and the Netherlands and
is the only leisure airline globally to operate them – a key
differentiator on long-haul destinations.

Environmental Management Systems help our airlines to
co-ordinate and drive environmental improvements. TUI airlines
have led the way in their regions to achieve the internationally
recognised ISO 14001 environmental management certification
scheme and all five of our tour operator airlines (95% of our
aircraft) have now achieved ISO 14001.

As well as delivering an enhanced customer experience, the
Dreamliner emits about 20% less carbon dioxide per passenger
kilometre than comparable aircraft. It also produces as much as
60% less noise pollution than the model it replaces. TUI currently
operates 14 Boeing 787 Dreamliner planes – set to expand to 17
aircraft by 2019. In 2015 we carried nearly two million passengers
on the Dreamliner and received exceptional customer feedback.

In 2009, TUIfly Nordic was the first charter airline in the world
to achieve ISO 14001 across its operations. In 2013, Thomson
Airways became the first airline in the UK and TUIfly the first
leisure airline in Germany to be ISO 14001-certified. In 2014,
TUIfly Netherlands achieved certification and in 2015 Jetairfly
was the first airline in Belgium to achieve the certification.

We have also committed to purchase 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft
from 2018 onwards – forecast to improve fuel efficiency by 14%
per seat compared with the Boeing 737s currently in our fleet.

These systems help us to reduce waste, increase efficiency,
generate cost savings and comply with legislation. The One
Aviation framework will align processes further and our airlines
are now working towards the latest ISO 14001: 2015 standard.

You can read more about our commitment to cutting-edge
aviation technology on page 36, including the innovative
ecoDemonstrator project.

Innovative split scimitar winglets

One of TUIfly Netherland’s Dreamliners takes off

RESPONSIBLE SOURCING

WASTE MANAGEMENT

ELECTRIC VEHICLES

Our airlines have set a commitment to source food, beverages
and other supplies responsibly. This means working with
suppliers to procure products with Fairtrade or environmental
certification, along with more responsible packaging.

Our airlines are working to tackle onboard waste by segregating
material that can be recycled. For example, Jetairfly is
segregating waste on 100% of flights and TUIfly Nordic used
a digital app to calculate that 90% of its onboard waste was
segregated by cabin crew.

As a result of a TUI-wide sustainability innovation competition,
Jetairfly introduced electric cars for ground-based colleagues
at Brussels Airport. The cars offer energy savings of 70% and
a 30% reduction in maintenance. The electric vehicles are used
to transport ground support agents and technicians to aircraft
before departure and on arrival. Airside use of these vehicles
for short distances is an ideal application for electric vehicles –
with a full battery they have a range of about 100 kilometres.
TUIfly Netherlands is also using electric vehicles airside.

A number of our airlines already carry certified products
onboard. For example, 32% of TUIfly Netherlands’ onboard
catering products include responsibly-sourced beverages,
sandwich packaging and meal trays. TUIfly Nordic offers organic
butter, juice and Fairtrade coffee and Thomson Airways offers
products certified to the Rainforest Alliance standard.
An internal working group has been established to review
current offerings, define standards and develop a responsible
procurement strategy across the Group. Inflight services on our
tour operating airlines are being consolidated and streamlined
through one supplier called Gate Retail Onboard, which will
help to advance this commitment.

In addition to space restrictions, international legislation
regarding catering waste imposes significant constraints on what
can be recycled, in particular non-EU waste. Ensuring adequate
waste management infrastructure at airports is one of the key
challenges to increase recycling of segregated waste, and an
internal working group has been established to drive this.

Electric vehicles charging at Brussels Airport

Many of our airlines are already working with source market
and destination airports. For example, in 2015 TUIfly
Netherlands collaborated with Amsterdam Schiphol Airport
and waste management company Suez to set up an airport
recycling unit for treatment of onboard waste. Thomson
Airways also leads a UK-wide Sustainable Aviation working
group focused on improving segregation and recycling rates.

19

Commitments by 2020

2) We will drive
environmental
improvements across
our cruise operations
2.1 We will reduce carbon emissions per
cruise passenger night by 10%
2015 PROGRESS*
Average carbon emissions per cruise
passenger night were 114kg CO2 in 2015

2.2 All TUI cruise ships will be ISO 14001
certified

Cruise
TUI Group operates 13 cruise ships across our three brands –
TUI Cruises, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and Thomson Cruises. These
holidays are gaining in popularity and are a growth area for TUI.
We are expanding our fleet to become one of Europe’s leading
cruise lines.
Chief among the sustainability challenges of cruise operations
are carbon dioxide emissions, sulphur and nitrogen particles
and other fine particulate matter that causes air pollution. We
are constantly improving the environmental performance of our
fleet and investing in new, more fuel-efficient ships with the
overall aim of making cruise operations more sustainable.

MORE EFFICIENT SHIPS
In 2014 and 2015, TUI Cruises launched Mein Schiff 3 and
Mein Schiff 4, cruise ships with exceptional environmental
credentials. They are 30% more energy efficient than
comparable ships and set a new standard for the industry.
According to a ranking by the German Nature and Biodiversity
Union (NABU) in 2015, Mein Schiff 4 was ranked the most
environmentally efficient cruise ship operating in the market.

20

2015 PROGRESS
In 2015, 7 cruise ships out of 13 were ISO
14001 certified.
The ships save fuel through a combination of the latest
environmental technology and strict environmental management
practices. A smart onboard energy management system,
efficient air conditioning, innovative lighting controls and the
use of waste heat from engines all contribute to a significantly
reduced carbon footprint. Mein Schiff 3 and 4 also produce up
to 99% fewer sulphur emissions through new systems that treat
exhaust fumes before releasing them into the atmosphere.
Four further ships have been ordered over the next four
years. Mein Schiff 5 and Mein Schiff 6 will have the same
environmental specifications and we are currently looking at
potential further environmental improvements to the new
ships, which will be delivered in 2018 and 2019.
The new-build MS EUROPA 2 joined the Hapag-Lloyd Cruises
fleet in 2013 and is equipped with a catalyst that reduces
nitrogen oxide emissions by almost 95%. It was the first cruise
ship to be awarded Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI)
certification by DNV-GL (an international certification body).

2.3 Our cruise operations will make
improvements in water consumption,
waste management, and sulphur and
nitrogen emissions
2015 PROGRESS
TUI Cruises reduced sulphur by 24.8%,
nitrogen by 20.1% and water by 2.4% per
guest per night (compared with 2014)**. Our
other cruise companies are implementing
improved reporting systems to report on
these metrics in future.
*Due to the merger, 2015 will be our baseline year.
** TUI Cruise data based on the 2015 calendar year.

ISO 14001 CERTIFIED

WASTE MANAGEMENT

TUI Cruises achieved ISO 14001 certification in 2015 for Mein
Schiff 1, 2, 3 and 4. The ships under management by Thomson
Cruises in 2015 also held ISO 14001 certifications for Thomson
Dream, Thomson Celebration and Island Escape (which has
now left the fleet).

TUI Cruises has an integrated waste management system
on board all its ships. During the voyage, waste is collected
by crew members from public areas and cabins and sorted
into six categories. The separated waste is then shredded,
compressed, burned or handed over on land for recycling or
specialist disposal.

MANAGING RESOURCES
The ships of Hapag Lloyd Cruises are equipped with modern
technologies to reduce resource use such as sea water
desalination systems for drinking water, biological sewage
treatment, anti-fouling silicone paint (reducing the growth of
sub-aquatic organisms) and high-tech waste heat recovery
systems.
Thomson Cruises has introduced a wide range of more efficient
procedures to reduce energy use, including single engine
running, or drifting on passage, where speeds allow, so the
engines can run at their most efficient speed.

RETROFITTING
TUI Discovery joined the Thomson Cruise fleet in June 2016
and has undergone extensive retrofitting to enhance its
environmental performance:
• Refitted with a different specification of stern and new
underwater seals so that it can operate using environmentally
friendly lubricating oils in the propeller shafts and thrusters.
• Fitted with advanced water purification systems such that
black (sewerage) and grey (shower/sink) water can be reprocessed back to near-drinking water standard before being
discharged overboard. A small amount of sludge remains
which is landed ashore and can be used for fertiliser.
• The vessel recycles air conditioning condensate for use in
laundry water.

TUI Discovery was retrofitted to
enhance environmental performance

SHORE EXCURSIONS

ELECTRIC ZODIACS

TUI Cruises introduced a ‘green and fair’ category of shore
excursions in 2013, based on criteria that deliver enhanced
environmental and social benefits.

Zodiacs are motor-driven rubber boats that make it possible
for guests to land in otherwise inaccessible areas such as
the Amazon or Antarctic. The Zodiacs aboard Hapag-Lloyd
Cruises expedition ships HANSEATIC and BREMEN are being
equipped with Torqeedo electric motors to reduce air and noise
emissions. We will be the first expedition cruise operator to
deploy this type of ‘greener’ technology on expedition ships.

Guests have responded very well to the ‘green and fair’
excursion portfolio. For every ticket booked, TUI Cruises
donates €5 to environmental projects and organisations, raising
more than €100,000 in 2015 for charities such as the SECORE
foundation which works to restore coral reefs in Curacao.
The programme has now been extended to Asia and is under
development for Central America.
To read TUI Cruise’s dedicated environmental reports, visit
www.tuicruises.com

*than comparable ships

21

Breakdown of carbon emissions from offices,
shops and brochures in 2015 (tonnes of CO2)

12,392
20,097
6,673

Major
Premises
Retail
Stores
Brochures

COMMITMENTS BY 2020

GROUND OPERATIONS
As part of our ‘Step lightly’ commitments, we are working
to drive environmental improvements across our ground
operations. TUI’s ground operations make up 9% of our total
carbon footprint and consist of major office premises, hotels,
retail shops and transport vehicles.
In the ‘Make a difference’ section of this report you can read
about our wider sustainability commitments for hotels and hotel
suppliers (see pages 25-28).
We have about 50 major offices (typically those with more than
100 people), located across Europe and countries like Mexico
and the Dominican Republic. Our retail portfolio consists of
more than 1,600 owned shops in 11 source markets. The source
markets with the largest retail estates are the UK and Germany,
with more than 1,000 shops between them. Our ground
transport operations sit within Destination Services and in 2015
included four companies – Ultramar (Spain), Tantur (Turkey),
Hotelbeds (Thailand) and SMDTT (Morocco).

22

3) We will drive environmental improvements
across our ground operations
3.1 We will reduce carbon emissions
from our offices, retail shops and
brochures by 20%

2015 PROGRESS*
Carbon emissions from our 50 major offices totalled
20,097 tonnes of CO2. Carbon emissions from our
1,600 retail shops totalled 12,392 tonnes of CO2 and
about 6,673 tonnes of CO2 was generated by brochure
production.

3.2 Our hotels will reduce carbon
emissions per guest night by 10%

2015 PROGRESS*
TUI Hotels & Resorts average carbon emissions per
guest night was 9.9kg of CO2.

3.3 Our ground transport fleet will
reduce carbon emissions per
passenger kilometre by 10%

2015 PROGRESS*
Carbon emissions from our four coach transport
companies (Morocco, Spain, Thailand and Turkey) were
on average 26.7g of CO2 per passenger kilometre.

*Due to the merger and the changing structure of the group, our baseline year for these commitments is 2015.

GREENER OFFICES AND SHOPS

ENERGY DASHBOARD

Germany has more than 450 retail shops currently undergoing
large-scale refurbishment. Lighting will be fully converted to
state-of-the-art LED technology, with potential to cut annual
power consumption by at least 50%. Upgrades over the past
two years have already reduced CO2 emissions from lighting
by about 25%.

An energy dashboard was rolled out to all Thomson and First
Choice shops, giving a clear, real-time indication of how each
shop is performing against its energy targets.
The dashboard has been a contributing factor to help reduce
carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 50% over five years.
Asking shop managers to respond to regular updates to
change employees’ behaviour saw a 19% carbon reduction
in a single year.

In Germany all retail shops use green electricity from
hydropower, and our TUI Group and TUI Germany head offices
in Hannover are on a green tariff. Our offices and shops in
Sweden, Finland and Denmark also source energy generated
from fossil-free hydropower.

Installation of the dashboard was a key reason TUI UK
& Ireland achieved ISO 50001 certification for energy
management in January 2015.

Between October 2014 and May 2015, TUI Netherlands
refurbished more than 100 retail stores with new lighting, airconditioning and installation of smart energy meters. Since 2011
TUI Netherlands has reduced office and retail emissions by 29%.
Our Enschede office in the Netherlands is certified to BREEAM
Excellent standard (a green buildings rating), featuring
advanced energy management, solar panels and elevators that
generate electricity.

GOING DIGITAL

Going digital reduces printed
material for customers
SMILE OFFICES
Destination Services are currently moving to new offices or
undergoing office refurbishments. The ‘Smiling office brand
guidelines’ have been developed to help inform each project
with sustainability a key element, including guidance on lighting,
water, energy and waste. In 2016, it will be rolled out to offices
in locations such as Palma, Cancun, Athens and Tenerife.

ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
TUI is working to meet the EU Energy Efficiency Directive
(EED), which requires companies to measure energy use,
perform audits and submit documentation.

TUI UK won the 2015 World Responsible
Tourism Award’s carbon innovation category

Each EU member state has set individual guidance and
timelines. Audits in Germany, Spain and other European
countries are taking place in 2016. Implementing audit
recommendations will drive further energy reductions across
TUI’s operations.

TUI tour operators have reduced use of brochures by more
than 50% between 2012 and 2014. To reduce brochure sizes
and printed material from the customer booking process, a TUI
app has been rolled out across eight source markets. It helps
customers prepare for their holiday and has been downloaded
more than one million times. The app has enabled significant
reductions in customer-printed material.

MORE EFFICIENT COACHES
We operate more than 300 vehicles and in 2013 began piloting
a ‘shared transfer’ initiative that has now been rolled out to
the majority of TUI tour operators. The initiative groups
customers arriving at a destination and transfers them to
their accommodation. As well as aligning quality standards,
it improves load factors and efficiency.
Based in Spain, Ultramar is our largest ground transport
company, carrying more than 10 million passengers per year.
Fuel efficiency measures include investing in new vehicles,
installing satellite navigation for route optimisation and fuel
consumption monitoring. In 2015, Ultramar in Malaga and
Palma achieved ISO 14001 certification for their offices and
operations.

23

• Introduction
• Hotels
• Human rights
• Customers
• Colleagues
• Destination Services

Creating
positive
change
24

We will deliver 10 million
‘greener and fairer’ holidays
per year by 2020, enabling
more local people to share
in the benefits of tourism

CREATING POSITIVE
CHANGE FOR PEOPLE AND
COMMUNITIES
Tourism can be a powerful force for good –
boosting economies, creating employment
and enhancing cultural understanding and
tolerance. Its role is specifically recognised
in Target 8.9 of SDG 8 on decent work and
economic growth, which calls for policies
promoting sustainable tourism to create jobs
and promote local culture and products.
Through our ‘Make a difference’ pillar we want
to ensure that local communities share the
benefits of tourism in the form of jobs and
educational opportunities, and that human
rights are protected along our value chain.
We want our holidays to benefit local people
and protect the environment so that we can
maintain the quality, viability and desirability
of our products for many years to come.

*through customers staying in hotels
with sustainability certifications

the largest component of the holiday package,
and we have found there is a clear link
between more sustainably managed hotels
and higher customer satisfaction scores, as
well as driving cost savings for the hotelier.
Our ambition is to deliver 10 million ‘greener
and fairer’ holidays per year by 2020,
measured by the number of customers we
take to hotels with credible sustainability
certification – defined as those recognised or
approved by the Global Sustainable Tourism
Council (GSTC). This kind of certification
demonstrates that the hotel cares for the
environment, their employees and the local
community (see page 26).

To improve the sustainability impact of our
products, hotels are a key focus – whether
owned by us or by our hotel partners. This is

Working with our customers and colleagues
along the value chain is critical to drive
enduring positive change in tourism. We
engage with them on sustainability and
support them in creating better holiday
experiences through our Destination Services
team and by showcasing more sustainable
holiday products such as the ‘Collection’
excursions.

Ambition by 2020

2015 PROGRESS

We will deliver 10 million
‘greener and fairer’ holidays a
year by 2020, enabling more
local people to share in the
benefits of tourism

We took over 5.6 million customers to
hotels with credible sustainability certifications
in 2015.

We will measure this by the number of
customers we take to hotels with credible
sustainability certifications each year e.g.
sustainability certifications recognised by
the Global Sustainable Tourism Council
(such as Travelife)

25

Commitments by 2020

4) We will work with hotel
suppliers to increase their
positive impact on the local
community and to protect
the environment
4.1 All hotels in our tourism business
portfolio will subscribe to credible
sustainability certifications
2015 PROGRESS
950 of our hotels (representing nearly
5.9 million customers) were subscribed
or certified to Travelife or awarded a GSTC
certification in 2015.

HOTELS
Our hotels are our central focus when it comes to improving
sustainability performance at our destinations. Every hotel
plays a role in managing our impacts on the local community,
economy and environment.
TUI Group owns or manages more than 300 hotels, and our
global portfolio of more than 245,000 beds includes highprofile brands RIU, Robinson, TUI Magic Life and the new TUI
Blue collection. In addition, we work closely with partners on
around 200 ‘international concept’ hotels including Sensatori,
Sensimar and Family Life, each designed for specific customer
segments. TUI’s growth plans include expanding our portfolio of
owned hotel brands and our international concepts.
We also work with more than 5,000 hotel suppliers around
the world.

26

SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION
To demonstrate their commitment to social and environmental
good practice, we expect our own hotels and our hotel partners
to implement credible sustainability certifications. Our ambition
is to increase the number of hotels achieving certification so
that by 2020 we can take more than 10 million customers to
hotels with credible certifications – up from 5.6 million in 2015.
GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE TOURISM COUNCIL
GSTC is a global initiative dedicated to promoting sustainable
tourism practices around the world. At the core of their efforts
are the Global Sustainable Tourism Criteria, a set of voluntary
principles covering all aspects of sustainability – environmental,
social and economic – that provide a framework for assessing
the sustainability of tourism businesses.

TUI focuses on certifications that are aligned with the Global
Sustainable Tourism Criteria. Currently 25 standards have
achieved GSTC recognition or approval, including Travelife,
Earthcheck, Green Key and Green Globe.
www.gstcouncil.org
TRAVELIFE
We are strong advocates of the Travelife sustainability
certification scheme. TUI is Travelife’s largest supporter, with
more than 450 certified hotels featured in our product offering
in 2015. We play an active role on the Travelife Board and
Steering Committee and helped to develop new, stricter criteria
launched in June 2014. The new criteria adhere to international
standards (including GSTC and EU Ecolabel) and cover areas
such as reducing waste, use of water, energy and harmful
chemicals, supporting local communities and protecting
employees, wildlife and human rights.
www.travelife.org

WORKING WITH partners

SUPPORT TOOLS

Our Product & Purchasing department is a central function in
our tourism businesses that will deliver our 10 million ‘greener
and fairer’ ambition. TUI purchasers have targets, dedicated
training sessions and resources to encourage hotels to work
towards certification. Examples of our work with suppliers
include:
• Incorporating environmental and social minimum standards
into contracts with accommodation suppliers.
• Setting out clearly the minimum standards we expect from
suppliers in the TUI Supplier Code of Conduct.
• A sustainability supplier workshop was organised in Germany
with the top performing hotels for sustainability to discuss
best practice and learn about new innovations.
• Communication and awareness-raising – for example,
our tour operator in the Netherlands publishes a regular
e-newsletter for incoming agents on sustainability.

Building sustainability knowledge is essential for strong
performance. We are developing a tool with consultancy firm
Responsible Hospitality Partnership (RHP) Ltd to support
hotels with practical guidance through the Travelife certification
process. The online tool is currently being piloted with three
hotels and, if successful, will be made available to all of TUI’s
hotel partners.
Other collaborations include TUI working with Futouris
and other industry players on a ‘sustainable foods in the
Mediterranean’ project for hoteliers and cruise companies. A
comprehensive sustainable foods manual was produced, with
guidance on food strategies and purchasing, preparing and
designing a sustainable menu, and waste management. The
manual is being shared with our hotels and cruise companies
in 2016.
www.futouris.org

BEST PERFORMING
Top performing hotels receive special recognition from TUI.
At the World Travel Market in London in 2015, TUI UK &
Ireland presented an award to El Dorado Royale Spa Resort
by Karisma (Riviera Maya, Mexico) for promoting sustainability
within the hotel, resort and supporting a wide range of local
community projects, and Sensimar Barut Andiz Hotel in Turkey
was acknowledged by TUI Nordic for their high customer
satisfaction scores on sustainability. A total of 205 hotels
received the TUI Umwelt Champion (Environmental Champion)
Award from TUI Germany for achieving GSTC certification and
meeting high sustainability customer satisfaction scores.

Commitments by 2020

5) We will showcase
world-class sustainability
standards across our TUI
hotels and concept partner
hotels
5.1 We will develop and roll out the TUI
EcoResort standard to drive exemplary
sustainability performance
2015 PROGRESS
An EcoResort project team was established
to review the current label and make
recommendations.

ECORESORT
The EcoResort label was created by TUI Hotels & Resorts in
2005 as a seal of quality for sustainability in hotels, and is
audited by independent, accredited specialists. Hotels and
clubs in the TUI Hotels & Resorts portfolio can display the
EcoResort quality label if they have been ranked a TUI Umwelt
Champion and achieve a recognised international or national
environmental standard. In 2015, 44 hotels displayed the
EcoResort label. A project team has been set up to review and
refresh the EcoResort standard in 2016-2017.
www.ecoresort-tui.com

At TUI we don’t stop at sustainability certification. We want
our own Hotels & Resorts and International Concepts to
showcase sustainability best practice. Sustainability is built
into the concept specification of these hotels, and we have
set them specific sustainability targets (see commitment 5).

5.2 We will develop a support forum for
hotels to share sustainability learning
and drive improvements

* managing their socio-economic
and environmental impacts

2015 PROGRESS
We worked with consultants to develop an
online tool to support hotels through the
Travelife certification process. The tool is
being piloted in 2016. We also collaborated
on a sustainable foods project and shared the
resulting manual with our hotels.

27

Here are some ways we are managing our sustainability impacts
to cut carbon, reduce waste, protect biodiversity and protect
local livelihoods.

SOLAR ENERGY
With a total area of 950 m², Robinson Club Agadir operates
Morocco’s largest solar system for hotel facilities. The solar
collectors installed on the roofs of the club buildings generate
2,600 kWh per day. The energy generated and heat recovered
from the air conditioning systems are used to produce hot
water and keep the pool complex warm. It covers about 70%
of the hot water needed for the hotel rooms.

BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION

HEAT GENERATION

RIU has set up a private conservation area in Costa Rica,
covering 200 hectares of land in the coastal mountain range
of Matapalo, close to two RIU hotels. The reserve has been
established in partnership with public and private entities
with the aim of showcasing successful local management
of natural resources. The site is part of a biological corridor
called Chorotega which creates vital links between nature
conservation areas. The reserve is home to more than 250
plant and animal species, some facing extinction. RIU has
also developed a strategic management plan to combat illegal
hunting and prevent forest fires.

Heat production in the Robinson Club Cala Serena in Mallorca
is saving significant amounts of carbon. Three 200-kW biomass
boilers generate hot water, heating and pool heating. Thanks to
the installation of a wood pellet system, about 220,000 litres of
conventional heating oil are saved every year.

WASTE REDUCTION
Robinson Club Maldives is avoiding waste thanks to its
sustainable treatment of drinking water. In June 2013, the Club
began operating its own soda-making facility. The system uses
osmosis to desalinate and purify seawater. By adding minerals
and carbonic acid, the freshly generated drinking water is
converted into soda water and decanted into new, purposemade glass bottles. After use, the 7,500 bottles are cleaned
locally and refilled, eliminating transport and disposal of about
400,000 plastic bottles annually.

SOURCING LOCALLY
Our Sensatori hotel in Mexico is supporting a beekeeping
community that sells honey-based products to local hotels.
They have also supported our Jungle Jams project, run in
conjunction with the Travel Foundation. Mayan women from the
remote community of Chumpon earn an income selling jam to
hotels in the area, while visitors get a taste of the real Mexico.

Commitments by 2020
5.3 Our hotels will include innovative
environmental technologies, invest in
skills training for staff, develop local
skills and favour local sustainable
procurement
2015 PROGRESS
68% of our TUI Hotels & Resorts and
International concept hotels had a GSTC
recognised sustainability certification in 2015.

Average carbon emissions per guest night
at TUI Hotels & Resorts and International
Concepts was 10.1kg of CO2, energy
consumption per guest night was 27.8kWh
and fresh water use 468 litres per guest night.

Solar panels on the roof of
Robinson Club Agadir

89% of employees in our hotels are nationals,
and 60% are from the local region. 81% of
food is country-sourced and 50% is from the
local region (Information provided by approx.
300 hoteliers).

RIU set up a conservation area
in Costa Rica
28

HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights are the basic entitlement of
individuals to lead a dignified life, free from
fear or want, and able to express independent
beliefs. TUI is committed to protect, respect
and remedy human rights throughout our
worldwide operations in line with applicable
laws, conventions and regulations.
We acknowledge the UN Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights and have a
number of policies and initiatives in place to
identify, prevent, mitigate and account for
human rights issues and challenges.
• In September 2014, TUI signed up to the
UN Global Compact, committing the Group
to 10 universally accepted principles in the
areas of human rights, labour, environment
and anti-corruption.
www.unglobalcompact.org
• TUI has signed the UN World Tourism
Organisation’s (UNWTO) Global Code
of Ethics – further highlighting our
commitment to human rights.
• Our employee Code of Conduct commits us
to respect and observe human rights.
• Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out
the minimum standards we expect from
suppliers and their employees, contractors,
agents and subsidiaries when working
on our behalf. The code covers human
rights and labour laws, support for local
communities and environmental impacts,
as well as bribery and corruption.

• TUI joined Transparency International UK’s
Business Integrity Forum in 2014.
•O
 ur businesses actively support several
child protection projects and campaigns,
and in 2015 TUI Group and RIU were
named as Top Members of the Code of
Conduct for the Protection of Children from
Sexual Exploitation in Travel & Tourism. In
2016, we joined the Board of the Code as
chairperson. We also sit on the UNWTO
Child Protection task force.
•O
 ur TUI tour operating businesses have
incorporated environmental and social
minimum standards into contracts for
accommodation suppliers.
•W
 e encourage our hotel suppliers
to implement credible sustainability
certifications recognised or approved by
GSTC. Travelife is the system we work
most closely with and we were involved in
developing new, stricter criteria, including
human rights (incorporating the principles
of the Ethical Trading Base Code), which
launched in 2014.
We continue to work with stakeholders to
better understand and respond to human
rights issues in our value chain.

29

Communicating with customers on sustainability
Research
stage

We communicate how we manage the impacts of holidays and promote ‘greener and fairer’ hotels (those
with sustainability certifications).

Booking stage

We ask for contributions to customer donation schemes that support good causes around the world.

Pre-holiday
stage

Many of our businesses include sustainability information in their pre-holiday literature, such as advice on
acting responsibly and with cultural sensitivity.

Journey stage

Our airlines include articles and features on sustainability in inflight magazines, and screen short films on
relevant topics.

On holiday

We use multiple opportunities to raise customer awareness, including at welcome meetings, during hotel
activities (local cooking displays, market evenings, local language classes and kids’ clubs) and outside the
hotel (village walking tours and excursions).

After the
holiday

Sustainability is highlighted in e-newsletters, via social media and as part of customer feedback
questionnaires.

Commitments by 2020

6) We will help customers
and colleagues to create
positive change

CUSTOMERS
A central aim at TUI is to stimulate demand for more
sustainable holidays by showing customers how it contributes
to a better holiday experience. Embedding sustainability into
our brand and raising customer awareness are therefore key
priorities.
Consumer research in our two largest source markets in
2015 highlighted that holidaymaker purchasing decisions are
influenced by sustainability when booking a holiday. Research
by the Federal Ministry for the Environment in Germany found
that 61% of consumers want to book a sustainable holiday. In
the UK, travel association ABTA found that about three out of
ten consumers (29%) would choose a company based on their
environmental record – up from one in five (19%) in 2011.
Demand for more responsible holidays is growing, but we can
do more to accelerate this.
One of TUI’s core strategies is to capitalise on the global
strength of the TUI brand. The oneBrand campaign will move
many of our key brands to the TUI brand.

To inform the oneBrand campaign, a comprehensive consumer
study was undertaken across our six core markets – UK,
Germany, Netherlands, Belgium, France and Sweden – to
understand what underpins trust in the TUI brand. In almost
every country, the sustainability aspect ‘the responsible way to
have a relaxing holiday’ ranked among the top three drivers of
motivation and uniqueness.
Sustainability has been incorporated into our ‘Discover Your
Smile’ brand promise and the TUI values ‘Trusted, Unique and
Inspiring’. During 2016, we will focus on developing guidelines
and tools for our businesses to bring sustainability to life for
customers and aligning this with the TUI brand.
At TUI our involvement in the end-to-end customer journey –
from inspiration and advice, to booking, flight, inbound services
and accommodation – gives us a great opportunity to integrate
sustainability every step of the way.

6.1 We will communicate about sustainability
throughout the customer journey
2015 PROGRESS
Customers in our six key source markets rank us
as one of the top two tour operators for sustainability,
with us being rated top in five markets*.

TUI research in 2015 showed that sustainability
ranked among the top three drivers of motivation
and uniqueness in almost all countries.
Our brands in Sweden (Fritidsresor), Denmark
and Norway (Star Tours) were ranked most
sustainable travel company in the 2015
Sustainable Brand Index. TUI Germany was also
named as one of the most sustainable travel
brands by the German FOCUS magazine in 2015.
*Annual Travel Trends Research in key source markets
commissioned by TUI and carried out by an independent company.

30

COLLEAGUES
VOLUNTEERING

Our 76,000 colleagues around the globe are essential
partners in delivering our Better Holidays, Better World
strategy. We want to involve and empower our colleagues,
so they understand the part they play and become effective
ambassadors for sustainability.
The first global colleague survey, ‘TUIgether’, was launched in
September 2015 and included a sustainability question. While
70% of our colleagues agreed that we are an environmentally
responsible company, more than 20% of colleagues gave a
neutral response, highlighting a significant opportunity for
further engagement with our sustainability programmes. Our
performance is currently above the global benchmark norm
for this question (63%) and our aim is to reach the highperforming company norm (77%).

RAISING AWARENESS
Our businesses use many channels to raise awareness of
sustainability and the role our colleagues play, from intranets,
newsletters and videos, to blogs, town halls and dedicated
initiatives. In 2016, for example, TUI Netherlands and TUI
Belgium sought input on TUI Benelux’s interpretation of the
Group’s Better Holidays, Better World strategy, gathering over
700 ideas strung up on cards in the office. At a company-wide
Product Day, TUI UK had a sustainability stand where colleagues
wrote hundreds of sustainability pledges on Better Holidays,
Better World postcards and learned more about the strategy.

ENGAGING RETAIL
A particular focus for our businesses is sustainability training
for customer-facing colleagues in retail so they can speak more
knowledgeably to customers. For example:
• TUI Germany highlights sustainability news articles to more
than 2,000 travel agencies throughout the year.
• TUI Netherlands distributes a dedicated sustainability
newsletter to travel agents and awards their top-performing
retail shops with the Green Palm award.
• TUI Nordic delivered sustainability training to 50 new sales
colleagues in Stockholm in 2015.
• TUI UK’s retail sustainability champions attended a full-day
workshop focusing on our sustainability strategy, energy
management and charity partnerships.

TUI colleagues organised beach cleans
in more than 50 destinations in 2015

Volunteering programmes are a powerful way to engage our
colleagues in sustainability and good causes. For example:
• In July 2015, TUI Group supported the Travel Foundation’s
Big Holiday Beach Clean, part of Make Holidays Greener
month. Our colleagues organised beach cleans in more than
50 destinations, involving more than 1,300 colleagues and
holidaymakers and collecting 1,000 bags of rubbish.
• TUI UK & Ireland’s volunteering scheme ‘Project Discovery’
run in partnership with the Travel Foundation matches
colleagues’ skills with sustainable tourism project needs.
More than 90 volunteers have taken part in 35 projects in 19
destinations since 2007.
www.youtube.com
• 3 0 colleagues in Hanover are volunteering time in 2016 to
deliver 10 German language courses to 120 refugees. The
project organised by the German TUI Stiftung will be rolled
out to other cities in Germany.
www.tui-stiftung.de

SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING
Sustainability has been embedded into training across TUI, from
inductions and training manuals to management development
programmes. Particular focus has been put on integrating
sustainability into the newly formed Destination Services part of
our business – for example, it is addressed in the ‘Destination
Service Manuals’ read by all 6,500 colleagues, with chapters
covering our Better Holidays, Better World strategy, child
protection, animal welfare and Collection excursions.
Sustainability has also been included in face-to-face induction
sessions. Specific training has been rolled out on topics such
as child protection, with all in-resort colleagues taking part
in a child welfare session and a half-day training session for
childcare colleagues. More than 500 senior managers within
Destination Services also took part in a sustainability workshop
as part of a managers’ conference in 2016.

Commitments by 2020
6.2 Our colleagues will be ambassadors for
sustainability
2015 PROGRESS
Results from our first global colleague survey
‘TUIgether’ showed that 70% of colleagues
agreed that we are an environmentally
responsible company, above the external global
benchmark norm of 63%.

31

Coba Mayan Traditions

Kaya Discovery

Berber Trail

DESTINATION SERVICES
The Destination Services part of our business brings our brand
to life in the destination and enhances our customers’ overall
holiday experience. Our inbound services offer transfers to
hotels, excursions, and in-resort destination representative
services. They operate in more than 100 destinations with more
than 6,500 colleagues and have a significant role to play in
delivering our sustainability strategy.

TUI COLLECTION EXCURSIONS
The TUI Collection is a set of differentiated excursions
developed by TUI and tailored to give guests a true taste of
each destination. They were launched in 2014 and are now
offered to most of our source markets.
More than 500,000 guests enjoyed these excursions in 2015
with 170 Collection excursions on offer in 41 destinations
across 12 countries. Our customer satisfaction research shows
they valued the ‘sustainability’ and ‘local flavour’ aspects most
highly out of all the different aspects of the excursion.

32

Each excursion in the TUI Collection must give guests a
differentiated experience, with local touches, visits to unique
destination highlights and specific sustainability criteria must be
met, showing that it benefits local people and minimises impact
on the environment (based on ABTA’s sustainable excursion
criteria). Examples include:
COBA MAYAN TRADITIONS
In Mexico, the ‘Coba Mayan Traditions’ TUI Collection excursion
was developed in collaboration with the Mayan community.
Guests visit the historic Mayan site of Coba, a Mayan village
and then a local shop to purchase products made by the
Mayan community. The lunch stop is at a local restaurant, which
benefits 130 families in the Coba community.
KAYA DISCOVERY
In Turkey, the ‘Kaya Discovery’ TUI Collection excursion gives
guests the chance to explore the ruins of a historic village
before visiting a local farm, which is part of the Taste of Fethiye

project we support, linking farmers with hotels. Guests have an
opportunity to purchase local produce at the farm and £1 from
each booking is donated to the project.
BERBER TRAIL
In Morocco, the ‘Berber Trail’ TUI Collection excursion takes
guests into rural Morocco to visit a traditional pottery house, a
locally-run argan oil producer and a Berber Market, giving them
a chance to buy locally produced goods. In the village of Ourika,
a family hosts the guests with mint tea, traditional bread and
almonds. Lunch is provided by a restaurant at the foot of
Toubkal Mountains, serving typical dishes from the area.

MORE SUSTAINABLE EXCURSIONS
It is not only our TUI Collection excursions which have a
special focus on sustainability, we want to ensure that all of
our excursions meet minimum sustainability criteria. We have
incorporated environmental and social clauses into contracts
with excursion suppliers and are working with the UK’s travel
industry association ABTA to define minimum sustainability
standards, showcase best practice, and promote use of the
Travel Foundation’s ‘Greener excursions’ tool.
www.thetravelfoundation.org
Creating more sustainable excursions brings together
commercial, social, economic and environmental best practice.
Taking all these elements into consideration will:
• Help ensure that we have a positive impact on the natural
environment and local communities.
• Offer customers unique and memorable holiday experiences.
• Protect the resources our business depends on into the
future.

DESTINATION
MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
In 2015, TUI Hellas in Crete, our destination management
company (DMC) in Greece, was the first Greek business
to achieve the Travelife certification for tour operators and
travel agents. The system helps businesses to manage and
improve social and environmental impacts by complying with
sustainability criteria.
The existing certification is more suited to tour operating
businesses than DMCs. We are therefore working with Travelife
to help them tailor a version specifically for DMCs, currently
being piloted by our company Tantur, in Turkey. A recent
workshop in Turkey brought together 80 participants, mainly
excursion suppliers, to discuss the certification.
www.travelife.info

Make the most of your time away with the
TUI Collection – our exclusive range of
unique trips and authentic experiences with
a special focus on sustainability.

TUI Collection excursions have a
special focus on sustainability

ANIMAL WELFARE
Our objective is to help drive improvements in animal welfare
standards in tourism. We were involved in developing the
industry’s first ever Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in
Tourism, produced by the UK’s Travel Industry Association
(ABTA), and we assess all relevant excursions against these
standards using third-party auditors.
www.abta.com
Due to our growing concern about the training practices around
elephant riding and elephant shows, we took a decision in 2015
to extend the withdrawal of these activities from selected to all
TUI tour operations. We started to phase out these activities
in the 2015/2016 winter season and we intend to offer only
elephant-friendly excursions to our customers.

DISCOVER THE HEART
OF YOUR DESTINATION

Commitments by 2020
6.3 Our destination management
companies and excursions will meet
our sustainability standards

*bringing benefits to local people

2015 PROGRESS
The number of customers enjoying TUI
Collection excursions grew from 84,000 in
2014 to more than 500,000 in 2015, with
more than 170 excursions in 41 destinations
(12 countries). TUI Collection excursions
all meet specific sustainability criteria. Our
destination management company in Turkey is
piloting a new Travelife certification scheme for
destination management companies.

33

• Introduction
• Innovation
• Skills and education
• Collaboration

Pioneering
sustainable
tourism
34

We will invest €10 million
per year by 2020, to
support good causes
and enhance the positive
impacts of tourism, using
the TUI Care Foundation
to support this work

PIONEERING SUSTAINABLE
TOURISM AROUND THE
WORLD
TUI Group is the world’s leading tourism
business. That means we have a unique
opportunity and responsibility within our
industry. Our scale gives us the resources,
reach and credibility to enhance the positive
impacts of travel and tourism – and the duty
to continuously shrink our footprint across
the value chain.
Where we can make the biggest difference
to sustainable tourism is by supporting our
suppliers and customers and influencing
our industry as a whole to operate in a
more sustainable way. By innovating and
collaborating to tackle our sector’s biggest
challenges, we will increase tourism’s positive
impact around the world and help to
futureproof our own business.
Our ambition is to invest €10 million per year
by 2020 in projects and strategic partnerships
that enhance the positive impacts of tourism.
The TUI Care Foundation has been created to
facilitate this work.

a Group foundation in 2016 to unite our
project activities. The TUI Care Foundation is
an independent charitable foundation, with
a majority of non-TUI trustees. Steering the
foundation is a Board of Trustees chaired by
Thomas Ellerbeck (Member of the TUI Group
Executive Committee).
The TUI Care Foundation supports and
initiates projects which drive sustainable
tourism and improve the welfare of
children and youth around the world. It
connects holidaymakers to good causes in
holiday destinations and fosters cultural
understanding, education, economic
prosperity and social development.
As it expands, the TUI Care Foundation will
work globally and act locally through strong
partnerships to create meaningful and
long-lasting impact. One hundred percent of
donations go to projects and project partners
and all overhead costs are covered by TUI.
Full details of the funds, projects and project
partners will be published in the TUI Care
Foundation’s annual report.
www.tuicarefoundation.com

Originally set up by TUI Netherlands in 2011,
the TUI Care Foundation was adopted as

*contributions from our businesses,
colleagues and customers

Ambition by 2020

2015 PROGRESS

We will invest €10m per year by
2020, to support good causes
and enhance the positive impacts
of tourism, using the TUI Care
Foundation to support this work

In 2015, our businesses, colleagues and
customers raised €5.4 million to support good
causes and enhance the positive impacts
of tourism. The TUI Care Foundation was
adopted as a Group-wide foundation.

We will measure this by the amount raised
for to charity, projects, and investments in
initiatives and memberships to support good
causes and enhance the positive impacts of
tourism.

35

Commitments by 2020

7) We will innovate for a more sustainable future for
tourism, and share our findings with the industry
7.1 We will investigate the holistic impacts of holidays and develop strategies
to minimise the negative impacts and maximise the positives
2015 PROGRESS
The results of the ground-breaking impact measurement study with
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and the Travel Foundation were launched in the
UK and Cyprus. The results shaped the development of our strategy and informed
several follow-up activities that are currently taking place.

INNOVATION
We want to create change at scale and to do this we need to
innovate in all areas of our business – especially aviation, cruise,
and hotels – and in how we measure our impacts and share our
findings with the wider industry.

measuring impacts
It is vital for our business to understand our impacts – both
positive and negative – and identify the most important actions
we can take to enhance the benefits of tourism.
In 2015, we launched a ground-breaking impact measurement
study with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and the Travel
Foundation in the UK and Cyprus. The project piloted a new,
holistic method of impact measurement for tourism, which
quantifies and values the economic, tax, environmental
and social impacts of tourism, called TIMM (Total Impact
Measurement and Management).
Focusing on 60,000 customers in eight hotels used by TUI in
Cyprus in 2013, the study found that TUI Group’s net impact
on destinations is overwhelmingly positive, with significant
economic and tax benefits of €84 per guest per night far
exceeding the negative environmental (-€4) and social (-€0.2)
costs. The project also showed that while the environmental
damage caused by one tourist may be small, this is multiplied by
millions of tourists over the years, and thus needs to be carefully
managed, if a destination is to stay attractive for years to come.

36

The project identified four clear areas for TUI to maximise its
positive impacts on destinations:
• Increase local sourcing of food and beverages in our hotels
and facilitate greater access to our customers for local
businesses and service providers.
• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and waste from hotel
operations.
• Support skills development and training for those working in
our hotels, particularly through work placements for tourism
and hospitality students.
• Influence destination governments to develop effective
sustainable tourism strategies to protect biodiversity, their
local environment, communities and culture.
Selected as a finalist in the Innovation category of the 2016
WTTC’s Tourism for Tomorrow Awards, the project has stimulated
interest both within and beyond our sector, notably from
destination governments, academics and NGOs. Its findings have
helped to shape our Better Holidays, Better World strategy by:
• Informing the way we measure supplier performance and
assess new destination operations.
• Guiding the future direction of our destination projects with
communities, NGOs and other stakeholders.
• Endorsing our continued focus on greenhouse gas (GHG)
efficiency throughout our destination operations, including
hotels and coaches.
• Underlining the importance of extending skills development
and training for hotel workers.

• Emphasising the benefits of increased local sourcing of food
and services, and facilitating access to our customers for
local businesses.
• Highlighting the lack of sustainability data management in
the pilot destination stresses a need for effective tourism
planning by governments.
Building on the findings, the Travel Foundation has set up two
subsequent projects in Cyprus to increase consumer demand
for locally-produced food in hotels and to create more
sustainable excursion products.
In follow-up work with PwC, we are now mapping key
sustainability risks in some of our key destinations to the global
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
To find out more about the TIMM project, read the full report
here (www.thetravelfoundation.org) or watch a short video
here (www.youtube.com).

ECODEMONSTRATOR

SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUELS

To accelerate development and testing of environmental
technologies to reduce noise and carbon emissions from
commercial aviation, we partnered with Boeing and NASA
for a phase of their ecoDemonstrator programme. A Boeing
757 aircraft was selected for the programme and our airline
colleagues held dedicated workshops to come up with
initiatives to test on the plane.

Sustainable fuels represent a real opportunity for the
aviation industry to reduce its carbon footprint. TUI is
collaborating on projects and partnerships to help scale
up sustainable aviation fuels.

New technologies tested included a wing coating that prevents
insects from sticking to the leading edge, thereby reducing
drag on the aircraft and active flow control to the vertical tail
to make it more efficient.
The first test flight took off from Seattle in March 2015, with
trials continuing throughout the summer. The plane was
dismantled and 90% was re-used or recycled in September
2015 using new methods to maximise the value of the
materials for aerospace and other industries. Watch a video
here (www.youtube.com).

In 2015, green diesel was trialled as part of the
ecoDemonstrator programme, in partnership with Boeing. The
green diesel tested was a blend of jet fuel with green diesel
made from material that included waste animal fats and used
cooking oil.
Our airlines are also collaborating with a number of
stakeholders to improve understanding and traction for
sustainable aviation fuel. In 2015, TUIfly Germany was part of
the Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy (AIREG), whose
objective is to support the production and use of alternative
aviation fuels. TUIfly Netherlands sponsored the second phase
of the AlgaePARC project (part of Wageningen University
and Research Centre in the Netherlands) with the Bonaire
Authorities to facilitate development of sustainable aviation
fuel from algae. TUIfly Nordic sponsors the Nordic Initiative
for Sustainable Aviation (NISA), which groups key players from
the Nordic aviation sector to drive development of sustainable
aviation fuels.
TUI is a Council member of Sustainable Aviation, which brings
together key players in the UK aviation industry – including
airlines, airports and manufacturers – to discuss long-term
challenges and opportunities for aviation. We contributed to
Sustainable Aviation’s roadmap for sustainable fuels, published
in December 2014, which outlined key steps to accelerate the
commercialisation of sustainable aviation fuels.
www.sustainableaviation.co.uk
TUI is also a member of SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Users Group), a coalition of global airlines that account for
approximately one-third of global aviation fuel use.

Commitments by 2020
7.2 Our airlines, cruise operations and hotels
will pilot cutting-edge sustainability
technologies and practices
2015 PROGRESS
Our ecoDemonstrator partnership with
Boeing and NASA tested innovative aircraft
technologies. In 2015, TUI airlines were the first
in Europe to fly with the innovative split scimitar
winglets on our aircraft, reducing fuel burn by up
to 1%.

TUI Cruises launched Mein Schiff 4 in 2015 with
an innovative exhaust gas treatment system
(Hyprid Scrubber & SCR technology), which
produces 99% fewer sulphur emissions.
We commissioned two sustainable hotel studies
to understand opportunities for sustainable
enhancements to future refurbishments and
developments and to assess the socio-economic
impact of hotel developments on local residents.
In 2016, we will integrate the learnings into our
business.
7.3 We will collaborate on projects and
partnerships to help scale up sustainable
aviation fuels
2015 PROGRESS
TUI airlines are collaborating with a number
of stakeholders to drive understanding and
action for sustainable aviation fuel. Green diesel
was tested as part of the ecoDemonstrator
programme with Boeing.

The ecoDemonstrator test flights
took place in Summer 2015
37

Commitments by 2020

8) We will invest in youth, tourism skills and education to create
employment opportunities in our source markets and destinations
8.1 We will work with vocational institutions and suppliers to increase tourism skills and support local
employment in destinations and source markets
2015 PROGRESS
Our hotels are involved in hotel training schools in the Dominican Republic, Greece, Morocco and Turkey. We also
supported a project in Tunisia to promote tourism employment opportunities for women. In our source markets
we support vocational training to increase tourism skills.

Within our TUI Hotels & Resorts & International Concepts, 60% of employees are from the local region, with 89%
from the same country (Information reported by approx. 300 hoteliers).

SKILLS & EDUCATION
EMPOWERING WOMEN

Globally, travel and tourism is a significant employer,
responsible for one in 11 jobs.

offered in partnership with the Turkish Ministry of Education
and Hanover’s Chamber of Trade and Industry.

Our impact research identified skills development and training
for hotel workers as one of the best ways for TUI to enhance
its socio-economic impact in destinations. We are committed
to investing in youth, tourism skills and education to create
employment opportunities in our source markets and
destinations.

In Greece, Robinson Club Daidalos in Kos is a partner of the
Mentoring Dual International Project (MENDI) which provides
high-quality apprenticeships in the catering and hotel sector.
Since 2013, more than 200 training places have been created
in about 50 hotels in Greece.

In Tunisia we partnered with the German development agency
GIZ to support a major project focused on training hotel
managers, working with hotel schools, and promoting tourism
employment opportunities for women. This is one way our
sector can support achievement of SDG 5 on achieving gender
equality and empowering women and girls.
www.giz.de

CHANCE PROJECT

TRAINING IN SOURCE MARKETS

HOTEL TRAINING SCHOOLS
Robinson Club are involved with hotel training schools and
initiatives in Morocco, Turkey and Greece. In 2008, the Robinson
Club Agadir established a Hotel Management School with the
German development agency (GIZ) and Moroccan Ministry of
Education, offering one-year courses for Moroccan students.
Nearly 600 students have been trained, with 60% gaining
employment at the hotel.
Robinson Club Pamfilya in Turkey offers vocational training for
young people aged 17-23 who would like to work in front-ofhouse, housekeeping, or as bar and kitchen staff. Since 2008,
250 students have taken part in vocational training at the hotel,

38

RIU Hotels & Resorts collaborated with four other hotel
chains in 2015 to launch an educational opportunity initiative
in the Dominican Republic. In the summer of 2015, 66
school students who would normally have little access to
vocational qualifications were able to take part in a two-month
training course. They attended practical modules devoted to
restaurant, bar service and kitchen skills, and teaching including
mathematics, English and Spanish, and the fundamentals of
tourism. The project was implemented jointly with the National
Technical Vocational Training Institute (INFOTEP).

Our businesses support vocational training schemes across
Europe. For example:
• In Germany, TUI offers training opportunities in 12 different
occupations and three courses at universities, which combine
theoretical and practical training. In 2015 more than 570
young trainees were active within the business.
• In the last 12 months, almost 300 people have participated in
an apprenticeship programme run by TUI UK & Ireland.
• TUI Netherlands ‘TUI Hospitality Academy’ was named ‘Best
tourism education of the Netherlands’, with 58 students
starting in 2015.
• TUI France also facilitated training for more than 70 trainees
in diverse corporate areas during 2015.

The Kinatschu children’s magazine

Better World Detectives schools programme

We want to raise awareness and understanding of sustainable
tourism among young people and tourism students. We have
a number of initiatives in place, with plans to build on these in
the coming years.

the interactive Better World Detectives is set in Costa Rica and
uses a range of multimedia resources – including video content,
Skype calls and WhatsApp messages, alongside traditional
worksheets – to give pupils an in-depth understanding of
sustainable tourism. This builds on the success of TUI UK’s Ecotraveller programme.
www.betterworlddetectives.thomson.co.uk

NATURE CONSERVATION FOR KIDS
TUI partnered with the Federal Agency for Nature Conservation
(BfN) in Germany to publish the ‘Kinatschu’ children’s magazine
to teach youth about nature conservation while on holiday,
including species protection and sustainable souvenirs. The
magazine is distributed in many of our TUI hotels such as TUI
Magic Life, Robinson Club and Family Life as well as onboard
TUI Cruises. The magazine is also available for schools and
interested groups from the BfN, with more than 15,000
students receiving it.
www.naturdetektive.de

BETTER WORLD DETECTIVES
TUI UK launched the Better World Detectives schools
sustainability programme throughout 2016. The new
programme brings the excitement of one of the world’s most
exotic destinations to the classroom to teach UK primary
school children about living and travelling in a sustainable
way. Designed to complement the Key Stage Two National
educational curriculum in the UK, and co-created with teachers,

SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
We support universities across Europe on sustainable tourism
topics. For example, in the last year we have delivered guest
lectures to universities such as Surrey University in the UK and
the University of Madrid in Spain. TUI Netherlands hands out
a Sustainable Tourism Thesis award to the best master’s thesis
from a selection of universities across the Netherlands and
Belgium. TUI Austria has a similar award, the ‘TUI Sustainability
award for scientific research’, granted to a student from
Innsbruck in 2016. Our sustainability manager at TUI Nordic
is a Member of the Board for a new vocational education
Sustainable Tourism Management course at Frans Schartau
Training Institute in Stockholm and delivers lectures as part of
the programme.

TUI Hospitality Academy in the Netherlands

Commitments by 2020
8.2 We will support schools, colleges and
universities so that young people
and tourism students gain a real
understanding of sustainable tourism
2015 PROGRESS
We are helping young people to gain
understanding of sustainable tourism through
initiatives such as the ‘Kinatschu’ nature
conservation magazine and Better World
Detectives schools programme. We also lend
our support to universities across Europe on
sustainable tourism modules and research.

39

Commitments by 2020

9) We will collaborate with
destinations on the sustainable
management of tourism
9.1 We will help to integrate sustainability into
the tourism strategy and frameworks of key
destinations
2015 PROGRESS
To support and advocate sustainable management
of tourism destinations, we work with many
partners such as UNEP, the Global Sustainable
Tourism Council, GIZ and The Travel Foundation.

COLLABORATION
Partnerships for sustainable development are the focus of SDG
17. We know first-hand how important partnerships are to
sustainable tourism – only if destinations maintain an attractive
local environment, a welcoming culture, and appropriate
amenities for tourism can TUI continue to bring positive socioeconomic impacts to destinations.
We are strongly committed to influencing and partnering with
destination stakeholders to ensure that they safeguard these
assets for future generations.
UN research shows that only 34% of countries say their tourism
sector is guided by a ‘sustainable tourism’ policy, so there is a
real opportunity for us to help them incorporate sustainability
considerations into tourism planning.

UNEP TASK FORCE
We are also part of the UNWTO’s sustainable tourism
task force of the UNEP 10-year framework for sustainable
consumption and production, adopted at the Rio+20
conference, where Jane Ashton, our Director of Sustainability,
sits on the multi-stakeholder advisory panel. The task force
is working to foster collaboration between key organisations

40

working in this space to scale up initiatives. Read an interview
with Jane Ashton here (http://sdt.unwto.org)
www.unep.org

GSTC DESTINATIONS PROGRAMME
TUI is a key sponsor and Board member of the Global
Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) and we encourage
destinations to participate in their destinations programme.
Three standards for destinations have now been recognised or
approved by GSTC (Biosphere Responsible Tourism, EarthCheck
community standard and Green Destinations Standard). We will
also present at the next GSTC AGM conference in Korea.
www.gstcouncil.org

third-sector stakeholders), leading to the development of
programmes on crafts, excursions and better beaches.
•W
 e have been working with the Travel Foundation in
Cyprus on projects including the integration of minimum
sustainability standards into the island’s national hotel quality
rating system.
• In Jamaica, we are supporting projects to develop cultural
excursions and boost tourist expenditure in Montego Bay.

KIDS COUNCIL

WORKING WITH DESTINATIONS

An innovative example of how we are driving sustainability in
destinations is the Curaçao Kids Council set up by TUI Benelux.
It enables children between the ages of 10 and 12 to play
their part in the future development of the local economy and
tourism in their destination.

TUI has a longstanding partnership with The Travel Foundation,
an independent charity working to ensure tourism benefits
people and the environment in destinations. We collaborate on
strategic projects that address the sustainable management of
destinations. For example:
• In Cape Verde, we helped to set up a destination council
to tackle sustainability issues (including public, private and

More than 50 children contributed ideas on how tourism can
make Curaçao a better place to live. The ideas are passed on to
TUI as well as local stakeholders such as the Curaçao Tourism
Board, the airport, ministries and hotels. The Kids Council has
been implemented in partnership with the Missing Chapter
Foundation and UNICEF Netherlands.

WASTE EDUCATION

We are involved in projects all around the world that support
communities and reduce negative environmental impacts:

The TUI Care Foundation is working with GreenKidz on an
educational waste management campaign for schools in
Curaçao reaching 8,000 children. Interactive classroom activities
will be developed for primary school students focusing on
plastic and recycling. The sessions will be supported with a
website, GreenKidz magazine and GreenKidz award to teach
children how they can contribute to a greener, cleaner and
healthier island. The foundation also supported the purchase
of a plastic recycling machine and more than 30 waste
separation containers for the hotel industry.
www.tuicarefoundation.com

SUPPLY CHAIN
TUI collaborated with the German development agency
GIZ and industry partners in Morocco to raise awareness of
sustainability initiatives in the tourism sector. The project
trained hoteliers from Agadir and Marrakesh on best practices,
encouraged hotels to achieve sustainability certifications and
addressed key environmental issues with local stakeholders,
such as waste management.

SOCIAL TOURISM

Taste of Fethiye produce in Turkey

TUI UK & Ireland supports the Family Holiday Association
(FHA), a charity dedicated to providing a simple day out or a
short UK seaside break for families in challenging and often
desperate circumstances. We launched the Million Smiles
campaign in May 2015 with the ambitious aim to raise £1
million over the next two years for the FHA through colleague
fundraising activities and customer collections.
www.familyholidayassociation.org.uk

SUPPORTING FARMERS

The La Geria project on Lanzarote
LOCAL TRADITIONS
The TUI Care Foundation supports a traditional wine-growing
business on Lanzarote at the La Geria vineyard, which offers
young individuals with disabilities training and employment
opportunities. The grapevines nestling in the volcanic landscape
give tourists an insight into the island’s traditions, and the
wines they produce are supplied to local restaurants and
hotels. One of our Collection excursions on Lanzarote includes
a visit to this venue.
www.tuicarefoundation.com

In Turkey, we are creating linkages between hotels and 29 local
farmers across six villages through the Taste of Fethiye project.
Over a five-year period, the project produced Taste of Fethiye
fruit and vegetables with a value of approximately €800,000.
Our customers are now enjoying more fresh, local produce in
hotels and visiting the farms on excursions.
www.thetravelfoundation.org.uk

PROTECTING ELEPHANTS
The TUI Care Foundation collaborates with World Animal
Protection to protect elephants and support farmers in
Tanzania. The farmers surround their fields with chilli plants
and beehives to keep the animals away from their crops, as
elephants don’t like the pungent odour of chillies or the bees.
They also gain additional income from selling chillies and honey
at local markets.
www.tuicarefoundation.com

Commitments by 2020
9.2 We will invest in strategic destination
projects at scale that enable local
communities to benefit from tourism
2015 PROGRESS
We invest in destination projects all around
the world that support local communities and
protect the environment. In 2015, we raised
more than €5.4 million to support good causes
and enhance the positive impacts of tourism.

41

Reducing the
environmental
impact of holidays

Better Holidays, Better World
2015 progress

We will operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines and
reduce the carbon intensity of our operations by 10% by 2020

2015 PROGRESS

Commitments by 2020

SUB COMMITMENTS
1.1 We will reduce TUI airlines carbon emissions per
passenger km by 10%

2015 PROGRESS

1.2 All TUI airlines will be ISO 14001 certified

All five of our tour operator airlines are now ISO 14001 certified, covering 95% of our aircraft.

1.3 Our airlines will source food, beverages and
other supplies responsibly

Several of our airlines offer a number of responsibly-sourced products onboard. A working group has been
established to define and implement common standards across our tour operating airlines.

1.4 W
 e will segregate cabin waste and work with
destination airports to improve waste management
and recycling

All our airlines are separating waste to some degree, but a key challenge is the waste management practices at
source market and destination airports. A working group has been established to focus on this commitment.

2.1 W
 e will reduce carbon emissions per cruise passenger
night by 10%

Average carbon emissions per cruise passenger night were 114kg CO2 in 2015 (Due to the merger, 2015 will be
our baseline year).

2.2All
 TUI cruise ships will be ISO 14001 certified

In 2015, seven cruise ships out of 13 were ISO 14001 certified (representing 54% of our ships).

2.3 Our cruise operations will make improvements in water
consumption, waste management, and sulphur and
nitrogen emissions

TUI Cruises reduced sulphur by 24.8%, nitrogen by 20.1% and water by 2.4% per guest per night (compared
with 2014). Our other cruise companies are implementing improved reporting systems to report on these
metrics in future.

3.1 W
 e will reduce carbon emissions from our offices,
retail shops and brochures by 20%

Carbon emissions from our 50 major offices totalled 20,097 tonnes of CO2. Carbon emissions from our
1,600 retail shops totalled 12,392 tonnes of CO2 and about 6,673 tonnes of CO2 was generated by brochure
production.

3.2 Our hotels will reduce carbon emissions per guest
night by 10%

TUI Hotels & Resorts average carbon emissions per guest night was 9.9kg of CO2.

3.3 O
 ur ground transport fleet will reduce carbon
emissions per passenger kilometre by 10%

Carbon emissions from our four coach transport companies (Morocco, Spain, Thailand and Turkey) were on
average 26.7g of CO2 per passenger kilometre.

1) We will make
measurable
environmental
improvements to our
aviation operations

2) We will make
measurable
environmental
improvements to our
cruise operations

3) We will make
measurable
environmental
improvements to our
ground operations

42

TUI airlines’ carbon emissions were 66.0g per revenue passenger kilometre (gCO2/RPK) in 2015 – a 2.3%
reduction over 2014. In the 2015 atmosfair Airline Index, TUIfly Germany was independently ranked the world’s
most climate-efficient charter airline, for the third year in a row. We are on average 30% more efficient than the
industry norm in Europe.

In 2015, TUI airlines’ carbon emissions per passenger km were 66.0g (gCO2/RPK), a 2.3% reduction compared
with 2014 (67.6g).

Creating positive
change for people
and communities

Better Holidays, Better World
2015 progress

We will deliver 10 million greener and fairer holidays a year by
2020, enabling more local people to share in the benefits
of tourism

2015 PROGRESS

Commitments by 2020

SUB COMMITMENTS
4.1 All hotels in our tourism business portfolio
will subscribe to credible sustainability
certifications

2015 PROGRESS

5) We will showcase
world-class
sustainability standards
across our TUI hotels
and concept partner
hotels

5.1 W
 e will develop and roll out the TUI EcoResort standard
to drive exemplary sustainability performance

An EcoResort project team was established to review the current label and make recommendations

5.2 We will develop a support forum for hotels to share
sustainability learnings and drive improvements

We worked with consultants to develop an online tool to support hotels through the Travelife certification process.
The tool is being piloted in 2016. We also collaborated on a sustainable foods project and shared the resulting
manual with our hotels.

5.3 Our hotels will include innovative environmental
features, invest in skills training for staff, develop local
skills, and favour local sustainable procurement

68% of our TUI Hotels & Resorts and International concept hotels had a GSTC recognised sustainability
certification in 2015.
Average carbon emissions per guest night at TUI Hotels & Resorts and International Concepts was 10.1kg of CO2,
energy consumption per guest night was 27.8kWh and fresh water use 468 litres per guest night.

6.1 W
 e will communicate about sustainability throughout
the customer journey

Customers in our five key source markets rank us as one of the top two tour operators for sustainability, with us
being rated top in five markets.
TUI research in 2015 showed that sustainability ranked among the top three drivers of motivation and
uniqueness in almost all countries.
Our brands in the Nordics and Germany have been ranked externally as some of the most sustainable travel brands.

6.2 Our colleagues will be ambassadors of
sustainability

Results from our first global colleague survey ‘TUIgether’ showed that 70% of colleagues agreed that we are an
environmentally responsible company.

6.3 Our destination management companies and
excursions will meet our sustainability standards

The number of customers enjoying TUI Collection excursions grew from 84,000 in 2014 to more than 500,000 in
2015, with more than 170 excursions in 41 destinations (12 countries). Our destination management company in
Turkey is piloting a new Travelife certification scheme for destination management companies.

4) We will work with
hotel suppliers to
increase their positive
impact on the local
community and to
protect the environment

6) We will help
customers and
colleagues to create
positive change

We took more than 5.6 million customers to hotels with credible sustainability certifications in 2015.

950 of our hotels (representing nearly 5.9 million customers) were subscribed or certified to Travelife or awarded
a GSTC certification in 2015.

43

Pioneering
sustainable tourism
across the world

Better Holidays, Better World
2015 progress

We will invest €10m per year by 2020, to support good causes
and enhance the positive impacts of tourism, using the TUI Care
Foundation to support this work

2015 PROGRESS

Commitments by 2020

SUB COMMITMENTS
7.1 We will investigate the holistic impacts of holidays and
develop strategies to minimise the negative impacts
and maximise the positives

2015 PROGRESS

7.2 Our airlines, cruise operations and hotels will pilot
cutting-edge sustainability technologies and practices

Our ecoDemonstrator partnership with Boeing and NASA tested innovative aircraft technologies. In 2015, TUI
airlines were the first in Europe to fly with the innovative split scimitar winglets on our aircraft.
TUI Cruises launched Mein Schiff 4 in 2015 with an innovative exhaust gas treatment system.
We commissioned two sustainable hotel studies to understand opportunities for sustainable enhancements to
future refurbishments and developments.

7.3 W
 e will collaborate on projects and partnerships to
help scale up sustainable aviation fuels

TUI airlines are collaborating with a number of stakeholders to drive understanding and action for sustainable
aviation fuel. Green diesel was tested as part of the ecoDemonstrator programme with Boeing and NASA.

8.1 W
 e will work with vocational institutions and
suppliers to increase tourism skills and support local
employment in destinations and source markets

Our hotels are involved in hotel training schools in the Dominican Republic, Greece, Morocco and Turkey. We also
supported a project in Tunisia to promote tourism employment opportunities for women. In our source markets
we support vocational training to increase tourism skills.

8.2 W
 e will support schools, colleges and universities so
that young people and tourism students gain a real
understanding of sustainable tourism

We are helping young people to gain understanding of sustainable tourism through initiatives such as the
‘Kinatschu’ nature conservation magazine and Better World Detectives schools programme. We also lend our
support to universities across Europe on sustainable tourism modules and research.

7) We will innovate
for a more sustainable
future for tourism,
and share our findings
with the industry

8) We will invest in
youth, tourism skills
and education to
create employment
opportunities in our
source markets and
destinations

9.1 W
 e will help to integrate sustainability into the tourism
9) We will collaborate
strategy and frameworks of key destinations
with destinations
on the sustainable
management of tourism 9.2 W
 e will invest in strategic destination projects at
scale that enable local communities to benefit from
tourism

44

In 2015, our businesses, colleagues and customers raised €5.4 million to support good causes and enhance
the positive impacts of tourism. The TUI Care Foundation was adopted as a Group-wide foundation.

The results of the ground-breaking impact measurement study with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and the
Travel Foundation were launched in the UK and Cyprus. The results shaped the development of our strategy
and informed several follow-up activities that are currently taking place.

To support and advocate sustainable management of tourism destinations, we work with many partners
such as UNEP, the Global Sustainable Tourism Council, GIZ and The Travel Foundation.
We invest in destination projects all around the world that support local communities and protect the
environment. In 2015, we raised more than €5.4 million to support good causes and enhance the positive
impacts of tourism.

DATA
SCOPE
The scope of this report includes data and progress on
sustainable development activities from businesses owned/
controlled by TUI Group. Data is for the financial year 2014/15
(referred to throughout as 2015 or FY2015), running from
1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015, except where
otherwise stated. We have indicated where data refers to joint
ventures or Group suppliers. Due to our new Group structure,
a number of baselines have been reset.

DATA SOURCES
For this report, progress data against our performance
indicators was derived from our 2015 annual sustainability
data collection process and internal central reporting systems.
During FY2015, we refined our web-based sustainability
data software solution to reflect the new Group structure
following the TUI Travel PLC & TUI AG merger. Using multiple
methods of data capture, this software has enabled us to
improve data accuracy and provide advanced monitoring and
reporting tools. This has allowed us to comply fully with TUI’s

greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirements for robust
and auditable data.

CARBON AND WATER FOOTPRINT
TUI Group was formed in December 2014. For historic data
relating to the carbon emissions of TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG,
please refer to the annual reports for each respective business.

new baseline year for the majority of TUI Group’s relative
performance indicators. The exception to this is TUI Airlines
which was previously operated entirely by TUI Travel PLC and
whose operations were unaffected by the merger.

In the financial year 2015, TUI Group’s total emissions
increased slightly year-on-year in absolute terms. This is due
to increased activity in the airlines and aviation segment
(Sunwing, our joint venture in Canada, had additional aircraft
and increased their flying programme) and the introduction
of a new cruise ship to the TUI Cruise fleet. The significant
reduction in emissions for Hotels & Resorts and Ground
transport is a result of re-defining our reporting boundaries
to focus primarily on owned and controlled assets.

We continue to improve our airlines’ carbon emissions per
passenger km by replacing older, less efficient aircraft and
implementing a fuel conservation programme. From FY2008
to FY2014 TUI reduced its airlines’ carbon emissions per
passenger km by 10.3%. In FY2015, TUI Group adopted
the European Standard (EN 16258-2012) to reflect the
methodology used by airlines to comply with EU ETS. TUI
has therefore restated the previous year’s key performance
indicators using the same methodology. In FY2015, the
efficiency of TUI Group airlines was 66.0g of CO2 per revenue
passenger kilometre (CO2/RPK) – a reduction of 2.3% from
the previous year.

FY2015 was TUI Group’s first financial year following the
merger of TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG. Due to operational
and structural changes, FY2015 will therefore be used as the

In FY2015 the total fresh water footprint from TUI Group’s
owned/controlled and international concept hotel properties,
plus our cruise ships was 24.2 million cubic metres.

Breakdown of TUI Group’s carbon footprint in FY2015

TUI Group’s intensity carbon emissions
in FY2015

CO2 [t]
Absolute figures (tonnes
of carbon dioxide)
FY2015

CO2 [t]
Absolute figures (tonnes Variance %
of carbon dioxide)
FY2014

CO2e [t]
Absolute figures (tonnes
of carbon dioxide
equivalent) FY2015

Airlines and aviation

5,615,386

5,520,695

+1.7

5,671,586

TUI Airlines (gCO2/rpk)

67.6g

66.0g

Hotels and resorts

510,492

658,568

-22.5

510,959

n/a

114kg

Cruises

639,119

576,741

+10.8

644,010

TUI Cruise operations
(kgCO2 per guest/night)

Major premises / shops

38,115

35,110

+8.6

38,292

n/a

9.9kg

Ground transport

17,761

24,974

-28.9

17,904

TUI Hotels and resorts
(kgCO2 per guest/night)

Other (scope 3)

68,403

63,888

+7.1

68,557

TUI Ground transport fleet (gCO2/rpk) n/a

26.7g

Total

6,889,276

6,879,976

+0.1

6,951,308

Source

FY2014 FY2015

* Passenger kilometres for our ground transport intensity emissions are
calculated using vehicle load factors

45

THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION

GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS

CDP CLIMATE CHANGE

TUI Group’s 2015 airline carbon intensity metrics have been
externally verified by PwC. PwC also assures our airline EU
Emissions Trading Scheme data. Our airline carbon data
methodology document and PwC’s full Assurance Report can
be found at www.tuigroup.com

TUI reports on greenhouse gas (GHG) emission sources and
operational control is the organisational boundary used for
its Scope 1 & 2 – and where appropriate Scope 3 – inventory
of GHG emissions as set out in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. TUI discloses carbon dioxide equivalent
(CO2e) data for both its absolute and relative emissions. CO2e
refers to CO2 and the other five Kyoto GHGs – (Methane
(CH4); Nitrous oxide (N2O); Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs);
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6).

In 2015, TUI Group achieved a perfect score of 100 for climate
change disclosure and was included in the UK FTSE 350 and
DACH Climate Disclosure Leadership Indices (CDLI). Only
the top 10 percent of businesses are included on the CDLI.
TUI has been featured on the CDLI for eight consecutive
years. TUI also received an ‘A-’ grade for our performance in
addressing climate change issues.

TUI also commissioned environmental consultancy Arqum
in Germany to audit processes for monitoring emissions,
data collection and calculations of environmental KPIs. This
audit covered TUI Group’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, including
Scope 3 emissions where relevant.

TUI Group’s carbon emissions since
FY2014

All material GHG emissions have been included and disclosed
following a thorough review of entities and emissions
sources across the Company’s international operations. The
methodology for the assessment is based on voluntary and
mandatory GHG reporting guidance issued by DEFRA (the UK
Government’s Environment Department) and the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol.

CDP – formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project –
independently assesses company information disclosed to
investors and the global marketplace. Information is assessed
against CDP’s scoring methodology and marked out of 100.
High scores indicate provision of robust climate data. A high
performance score signals that a company is measuring,
verifying and managing its carbon footprint.
www.cdp.net

TUI Airlines – Fuel consumption and related emissions
FY2015

FY2014

Variance %

l / 100 rpk*

2.62

2.68

-2.3

t

5,034,264

5,014,068

+0.4

FY2014

FY2015

Scope 1 emissions - CO2 [t]

6,273,835

6,382,238

Specific fuel consumption

Scope 2 emissions - CO2 [t]

543,935

438,634

Carbon dioxide (CO2) - absolute

Scope 3 emissions - CO2 [t]

62,206

68,403

Carbon dioxide (CO2) - specific

kg/100 rpk*

6.60

6.76

-2.3

Total

6,879,976 6,889,276

Nitrogen oxide (NOx) - absolute

t

30,754

31,651

-2.8

Nitrogen oxide (NOx) - specific

g/100 rpk*

41.38

44.13

-6.2

Carbon monoxide (CO) - absolute

t

1,523

1,440

+5.8

Carbon monoxide (CO) - specific

g/100 rpk*

2.05

2.01

+2.0

Hydrocarbon (HC) - absolute

t

130

131

-0.8

Hydrocarbon (HC) - specific

g/100 rpk*

0.17

0.18

-5.6

Scope 1 covers direct emissions. Scope 2 & 3 cover
indirect emissions

46

We welcome your feedback on our plans and our performance,
as well as your collaboration in making it a reality.
Contact us:
Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability, TUI Group
sustainability@tui.com
TUI Group website:
www.tui-sustainability.com

TUI Group Annual Report 2014/15 and Upgrade magazine:
(Sustainability content on pages 16, 146 – 149 of the Annual Report
and pages 36 - 71 of the Upgrade magazine)
http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com

UN Global Compact 2015 Progress Report:

http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com/sustainability/un-globalcompact-progress-report

Better Holidays, Better World strategy summary report:
www.tuigroup.com

Better Holidays, Better World animation:
https://youtu.be/-eYRMZRXOVE

Information on People management:
(including training, talent management, diversity and health and safety)
http://annualreport2014-15.tui-group.com/sustainability/people

Information on Compliance:
www.tuigroup.com/en-en/about-us/compliance

Information on Corporate Governance:

www.tuigroup.com/en-en/investors/corporate-governance

47

