Sustainability Report 2014

Sustainability Report 2014

This Sustainability Report is also
available in German and Chinese.
These versions and further information can also be downloaded
from the Internet.
www.voith.com

Focus

Asia
Asia is the world’s strongest-growing region and is unrivaled in terms of
dynamism. Voith has had deep roots there for many years – with its own
locations, factories and, since 2014, also with its own training center in China.
We wish to leverage our technologies and know-how to make an active
contribution to the region’s sustainable development – after all, that will
ultimately help us secure our own independence. Our report, which focuses
on Asia this year, details how we do that.

About this Report
Our Aspiration
This report is the fifth Sustainability Report by Voith GmbH. Since
2009, we have kept our company’s stakeholders updated once
a year on the progress we are making in our fields of activity.
These include Sustainable Management, Sustainable Profitable
Growth, Environment, Product Responsibility, Employees and
Society. The focus is on explaining our strategies, solution approaches, and measures as well as presenting our key figures.
In order to identify the key sustainability topics for our reporting, we conducted an extensive stakeholder survey at the end
of 2013. The results were used as the basis for a materiality
analysis, which enabled us to readjust our sustainability reporting
and focus on the main aspects.
Reporting Content
In preparing the report, we have been guided by the internationally recognized Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
and have used the version GRI G4 for the first time. In our assessment, the scope of reporting meets the requirements of the
GRI G4 “Core” option. We have dispensed with an external audit
of the report’s content.
Reporting Period and Report Scope
The Sustainability Report 2014 is based on fiscal year 2013/14
and covers the period from October 1, 2013, to September 30,
2014.
The report’s scope and boundaries are essentially the same as in
the previous report. Deviations in individual cases are stated and
explained in the respective sections in the report.
There were no significant changes in the company’s size and
structure, ownership structure or supply chains in the reporting period. Voith has defined the measures under its Voith 150+
future program in more concrete detail after the end of the reporting period. The impact of these measures have not been
included in this report.
Unless otherwise stated, the facts, figures, and information in
this report refer to the Voith Group as a whole with its global
Group Divisions Voith Hydro, Voith Industrial Services, Voith

Paper, and Voith Turbo. Details of the consolidated companies
can be found in the Voith Annual Report 2014. The degree of
consolidation is 84.3 % of the Group’s sales and 84.0 % of the
Group’s employees, unless otherwise indicated in the report.
Gathering and Comparability of Data and Information
Information was collected electronically and the data was recorded using division-specific software.
Once again certain figures were calculated for the first time for
this report. This means that in specific cases a three-year trend
cannot yet be presented, but this is a goal pursued in the future.
Owing to the new calculation bases, improved data quality, and
updated information, we needed to correct figures relating to
previous periods in individual cases. There may be differences in
the data totals as a result of rounding figures up or down.
Forward-looking Statements
All forward-looking statements in this report are based on assumptions at the deadline for content submission. Due to unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, the actual results,
developments, or performance of our company may deviate from
our prognoses, evaluations, and statements.
Additional Comments
For improved readability, we refrain from referring specifically to
both genders in this report. This is not a value judgment and all
forms are to be understood as gender-neutral. The term “service
business” describes the business activity of the Group Division
Voith Industrial Services (VI).
The Sustainability Report 2014 is available in German, English
and Chinese and can also be downloaded from our company
website. Please visit our website at www.voith.de and read our
Annual Report for further and more extensive information.

We expect to publish our next Sustainability Report in the spring
of 2016.

Editorial
Dear readers,
This is now the fifth Voith Sustainability Report. We’ve again made major progress over the past year, both in establishing sustainability organizationally at our
company and specifically in improving key performance indicators. Even though
we haven’t achieved all our objectives, our mission remains the same: we want to
make a contribution to sustainable development – in a concrete, transparent and
measurable way.
That’s precisely why we surveyed our stakeholders for the first time last fiscal year.
What aspects do you feel to be especially important? In what fields of activity do
you believe Voith has particular responsibility? What’s your assessment of our
performance? Where can we and where do we need to improve? The response
was more than pleasing: More than 1,000 people from 43 countries took part in
the online survey and gave us valuable feedback. You can read more about it in
this report, which we have prepared for the first time in accordance with the new
G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. On the basis of our stakeholders’
feedback, we’ve focused the content on the main topics and consequently fulfill
the requirements of the G4 level “Core”. In the coming years we intend to increase
the transparency and scope of our reporting gradually and so ultimately achieve
the even more extensive level “Comprehensive”.
We’ll mainly address the issue of product responsibility this fiscal year and hope our
second stakeholder survey will supply important reference points for that. With the
aid of a broad-scale study, we also want to identify the relevant sustainability topics
in our supply chains so as to live up to our mission of enhancing sustainability at
our suppliers, as well.
I would be delighted if you were to keep on accompanying us on this path and providing feedback so as to help Voith contribute to sustainable development bit by bit,
year after year. We at Voith are committed to doing all we can to achieve that goal!

Sincerely yours,

Torsten Kallweit
Head of Corporate Sustainability

4 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Contents
About this Report, Contents, Foreword
About this Report

2

Editorial4
Contents5
Foreword 


6

01 Sustainable Management

8

04 Responsibility for Employees

46

4.1 Management Approach

48

4.2	Personnel Development, Training
and Education

52

4.3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity

54

4.4 Occupational Health and Safety

56

1.1 Group Portrait 

10

05 Responsibility for Society

61

1.2	Strategy and Organization

12

5.1 Management Approach 

62

1.3 Stakeholder Dialog and Materiality

14

5.2 Projects and Activities

63

1.4 Values and Compliance

17

02 Responsibility for the Environment

20

2.1 Management Approach

22

2.2	Eco Standards – Focus on Environmental
Protection23
2.3	Ecological Business Management –
Responsible Use of Resources 

27

03	Responsibility for Products
and Supply Chains

36

3.1 Product Responsibility

38

3.2	Supplier Management

42

Miscellaneous67
Facts and Figures

68

Goals and Goal Achievement

93

GRI Index

100

Imprint/ContactCover

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 5

Foreword

Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear friends of Voith,
You have in front of you the fifth Voith Sustainability Report. In it, you can read
what progress the family-owned company Voith has made in 2013/14 in relation
to sustainability. You can also read about the tasks and challenges we face on the
path to achieving our objective: to become a benchmark for corporate sustainability
in our industry.
Since the company’s beginnings almost 150 years ago, it’s been Voith’s mission
to operate, act and grow sustainably. We were also able to reap some of the fruit
of this deeply engrained philosophy in 2013/14: We’re happy to announce that the
number of work accidents remains at a constantly low level. The fall in the volume
of waste and energy used is also a further incentive for us. Moreover, we captured
the prestigious DEKRA award for our innovative hazardous materials management
system, which paves the way for us to achieve the goal of pollutant-free products.
And we’re also making good progress in the area of human resources. For example
in implementing our Group-wide HR information system, with which we’ll control
all HR-related processes in the future: We’ve launched various pilot projects that
will help us make our human resources work even more effective, faster and more
successful.
All this applies to Voith Group-wide. That’s because sustainability at Voith is a management principle that is practiced at our more than 250 locations in over 50 countries. For example Asia, an issue we’ll deal with in more detail in this year’s report.

6 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

A lot is happening in Asia. The continent – and China in particular – is now one of
Voith’s most important growth markets. We generate some 20 percent of our Group
sales there. We also initiated a lot of measures and achieved quite a bit in Asia in
2013/14. One visible success is the new Voith Training Center in Kunshan, which
we opened in the spring of 2014. We are training experts for the Chinese market
there using the tried-and-proven German dual-training model – extensively, with
the long term in mind, and sustainably. After all, we can only handle growth in the
region successfully if we’re able to fall back on excellently qualified local employees
from our own ranks. You can read more about the other sustainability topics and
projects we’re currently tackling in Asia in this report.
Voith’s sustainable growth and permanent competitiveness beyond its 150th
anniversary is also the objective of the Group-wide success program Voith 150+
we launched at the beginning of fiscal year 2013/14. All the measures can be
encapsulated in four words: Become better every day. For our customers. For our
employees. For our owners. For our future. That formula may sound simple, but putting it into practice is a complex task, since this process of change extends deeply
into all the core areas of our company. It aims to optimize our product portfolio,
improve our structures and processes, and enhance the corporate culture we have
evolved over decades. 2013/14 was the launch of many measures and activities
under the success program, which is running on schedule. Some of them are also
presented in this report.
Whether major projects or small suggestions for improvement, local initiatives or
programs straddling regions, in Asia, South America or Europe – acting sustainably always starts on a small scale. By everyone of us thinking and acting more
consciously. By everyone of us doing our bit to make Voith better every day.
I hope you find our new Sustainability Report an interesting and enjoyable read.

Yours sincerely,

Dr. Hubert Lienhard
President and CEO

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 7

Being established in all regions of the world and knowing local markets –
that is part of our corporate strategy and the foundation for our company’s
success. The markets of Asia and North America are currently Voith’s most
important growth regions. The company has had its own production sites
there since the beginning of the 1990s and is systematically expanding its
local footprint. Voith now generates around 20 percent of its Group sales
in Asia and some 29 percent in America.

01

Sustainable
Management
Voith is a globally operating technology group.
With our portfolio of plant, products, and industrial
services, we are now a player in five markets worldwide: Energy, Oil & Gas, Paper, Raw Materials, and
Transport & Automotive. Voith’s understanding of
sustainability is shaped by the tradition and style of
this family-owned company – and comes with the
commitment to do business in an environmentally
compatible and fair way that also ensures our longterm success.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 9

Sustainable Management

1.1 Group Portrait
Group Portrait
Voith is a global technology group that is represented in more than 50 countries and maintains
a worldwide network of production, service, and
distribution locations. Founded in 1867, it is now
one of the largest family-owned companies in
Europe and generates annual sales of € 5.3 billion.
Voith GmbH, headquartered in Heidenheim an
der Brenz (Germany), is the operational management holding company for the Group. It is fully
family-owned. The Board of Management of Voith
GmbH is responsible for the Group’s strategic
management and operations. The Shareholders’
Committee and Supervisory Board act as advisory
and supervisory bodies. The Supervisory Board
also monitors the Board of Management.
Operational business is pooled in four Group
Divisions, each managed by legally independent
management companies.
Voith Hydro is a full-service provider of hydropower
plant equipment and one of the leading partners
for hydropower plant operators worldwide. One
quarter of the world's hydropower is generated
using Voith Hydro turbines and generators.
Voith Industrial Services is the service provider
for key industries ranging from automotive, energy,
chemicals, and petrochemicals to mechanical
engineering and aerospace. Major companies all
over the world place their trust in technical services from Voith Industrial Services.
Voith Paper is a system provider for the paper
industry, offering technologies, products, and
services for the entire paper manufacturing process. Much of the world’s paper is produced using
machines from Voith.

10 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Voith Turbo produces drive solutions as well as
technical systems and components that are used
around the world – in industrial plant and on rail,
road and water.
Financial Independence Creates Stability
and Freedom
As one of Europe's major family enterprises Voith
benefits from the stability and long-term view taken
by its owners. Sustainable, profitable development
of the company is a core concern of the shareholders, Supervisory Board and Corporate Board of
Management. It is the foundation for Voith’s financial independence so that the company can be
passed on to the next generation.
Group Strategy – Sustainable, Profitable
Corporate Development is the Goal
Voith pursues a sustainable corporate strategy
focused on long-term, profitable development. It is
based on four pillars: a balanced product portfolio,
our global presence, strong innovation, and financial independence as a family-operated company.
Starting with our original core business – machine
and plant construction – we have expanded our
product and service portfolio in recent years and
established ourselves in our key markets: Energy,

Organizational Structure
Voith Group Business Divisions
Voith GmbH

Voith
Hydro

Voith
Industrial
Services

Voith
Paper

Voith
Turbo

Oil & Gas, Paper, Raw Materials, and Transport &
Automotive. Our positioning makes it possible for
us to absorb numerous economic risks: It is easier
for us to compensate for sales losses in late-cycle
markets with growth in early-cycle markets – and
vice versa.
We want to be represented with development
and production sites in key growth regions so we
can supply each market locally and advise market
players on the spot. We do this through regional
value creation, as in addition to management and
supply chains we are also making increasing use
of local financing sources. Voith aims to be as
deeply rooted in its international markets as it is in
its German locations.V
Fiscal Year 2013/14 – Weak Business Development in a Still Difficult Market Environment
The general climate in fiscal year 2013/14 was
extremely tough. Group sales fell by 7 % to
€ 5,345 million (previous year: € 5,728 million). The
four Group Divisions suffered drops in sales of
between 1 % (Voith Industrial Services) and 13 %
(Voith Paper). Project delays on the part of customers at Voith Paper and a decline in the raw
materials market that was stronger than expected
and impacted Voith Turbo’s sales contributed to
this below-budget performance. Sales were also
reduced by negative currency effects totaling more
than € 170 million. As a result of an unexpectedly
sharp fall in exchange rates in some emerging
markets, our sales in euro terms were much lower
in those countries than forecasted when the 2013
Annual Report was presented. All four Group
Divisions were hit by that. Adjusted for the currency effects, sales declined by 4 %.
As a consequence, the Group’s profit from operations fell by 29 % to € 220 million (previous year:

€ 310 million), with most of that being attributable
to Voith Paper. Like the other Group Divisions,
however, Voith Paper was still in the black. All in
all, the Group posted net income of € 41 million
(previous year: € 65 million). ök

AR 2014
Group Management
Report and
Consolidated Annual
Financial Statements

Voith 150+ Program Secures Competitiveness
We launched the Group-wide success program
Voith 150+ at the start of fiscal year 2013/14. It
is intended to lay the foundation for the Voith
Group’s long-term competitiveness and growth
beyond the company’s 150th anniversary in
2017. Among other things, its measures aim to
secure and expand our existing business, as well
as streamline the portfolio where necessary. Its
focus is on our traditional strength – the engineering expertise we have built up through many years
of research and development work. Our goal is to
position Voith as a competitive technology leader
in the digital age. We feel sure that our strategy
will provide the right framework for our successful
long term development. After all, an economically
powerful enterprise is also a sustainable one.
Under Voith 150+, we have also initiated a change
process to make our entire company’s structures
and processes more effective and efficient. We are
working to reduce the complexity of processes
and so to increase our speed and agility worldwide.
These initiatives are flanked by measures to
strengthen and enhance our corporate culture. In
addition to the values we practice, we motivate our
employees to act on their own initiative. They
should contribute and advocate their ideas regardless of hierarchy. All employees are urged to
actively point out sources of errors or potential
problem areas. As a result, everyone at the company can do their part to ensure Voith keeps on
improving. v

Responsibility for
Employees
Section 4.1 and
section 4.2

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 11

Sustainable Management

Total Sales in 2013/14: € 5,345 million

Group Sales

by Group Division

in € millions
5,728

2012/13

5,345

2013/14

Voith ­Turbo
26 %

Voith ­­Hydro
25 %

Voith Paper
27 %

Voith ­Industrial
­Services
22 %

by region
America
29 %

Germany
20 %
Europe
excluding
Germany
28 %

Asia
20 %

Outlook
We assume a three-speed world in the coming
years. The strongest boosts to growth will come
from the emerging markets of Asia. Low energy
prices mean that the market in North America
should also grow perceptibly, whereas most other
industrialized countries, in particular in Europe,
will hardly exhibit any dynamism. In principle, we

Other
3%

have prioritized Asia and North America as strategic growth regions for the Voith Group. Intensive
investment, even deeper local roots, and localization of products are to enable us to take a slice
of the growth in these markets. We also intend to
leverage special developments in individual markets, segments and countries for specific Group
Divisions or Business Units.

1.2 Strategy and Organization
1.2.1 Sustainability as a Core Component
of our Strategy
Sustainability and striving for commercial success
are inextricably linked at Voith. Our approach to
sustainability has its roots in Voith's family tradition:

12 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

a commitment to ecological, fair and enduringly
successful business.
We make a measurable contribution to the sustainable development of our company, society and

the environment. We aim to make Voith the benchmark in our industry when it comes to sustainability, too. We want to live up to that throughout the
value chain and in all our processes.
Defined fields of activity integrate sustainability
management in the Group. They include the goal
of sustainable management and striving for profitable growth. Responsibility for our products, the
environment, our employees and society is also
part of our sustainability approach. Each field
of activity is assigned concrete measures with
scheduled goals. Z
1.2.2 Organization of Sustainability at Voith
At Voith, sustainability is a cross-functional
responsibility shared by the Corporate Board of
Management, the Corporate Departments and
Group Divisions. The Corporate Sustainability
central function provides the framework for the
strategic focus and organization of sustainability
at Voith. It advises the companies and Corporate
Departments and further develops sustainability
as a strategic issue. The central function reports
directly to the President and CEO. It defines methods and tools for measuring and controlling the
activities of the Group, such as the sustainability
database. In addition, the areas of Environment,
Health and Occupational Safety, and the Corporate Sustainability Office report directly to the
central function.
The Corporate Sustainability Council (CSC), which
is comprised of the sustainability officers from the
Group Divisions, acts as the central control body.
It convened nine times in fiscal year 2013/14.

Divisions and is responsible for the processes of
data collection. Implementing measures is the
responsibility of the Group Divisions and various
Corporate Departments (for example, HR and
Purchasing).
Voith has a very stringent system for monitoring
implementation of its sustainability strategy rigorously. As part of the quarterly sustainability report
on the CSC, achievement of the sustainability
goals at the Group and Group Division level is
regularly controlled. The report contains a detailed
list of measures defining tasks, responsibilities and
deadlines for the operational level.
Transparency and Reporting
We inform our stakeholders in the shape of the
annual Sustainability Report. Sustainability is also
a firm part of our Annual Report. S

Goals and Goal
Achievement
Page 93 et seq.

AR 2014
Group Management
Report/Sustainability

We keep our employees regularly up-to-date on
sustainability topics by means of postings on the
Group-wide intranet or articles in the employee
magazine. Our wish is to motivate them to do their
bit to enabling further progress on sustainability
at Voith.
Site and plant managers have a special role as part
of that. We want to provide them with practical
know-how and so help them save resources in
their sphere of responsibility. In addition, sharing
of experience between locations is to be intensified so that best-practice solutions can be implemented as quickly as possible at the Group.

The CSC prepares the bases for decisions and
reports directly to the Corporate Board of Management. In its controlling and monitoring function, the
council monitors the operational implementation
of strategies, goals, and measures in the Group

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 13

Sustainable Management

1.3 Stakeholder Dialog and Materiality
1.3.1 Stakeholder Groups and
Dialog Approach
As a global Group, Voith is in dialog with a large
number of stakeholders. We address their different
requirements, interests and expectations and take
them into account in our corporate decisions. Our
most important stakeholders include the owners
and supervisory bodies, employees, the Works
Council, customers, suppliers and investors,
neighboring communities, economic associations
and academia, government agencies and politicians, NGOs (e.g. the World Wide Fund for Nature),
and the interested general public.

Stakeholder Survey: Distribution
of Participants by Group Division

At the end of 2013, we conducted a stakeholder
survey for the first time in order to identify their
expectations and requirements relating to corporate responsibility at Voith. 1,048 participants from
43 countries completed the anonymous online
survey, which was available in five languages on
Voith’s homepage.

The participants were spread fairly evenly over all
our Group Divisions, meaning the survey gives a
balanced reflection of our stakeholder universe.

in %
Voith Holding
8%

Voith Paper
22 %

Voith ­Industrial
­Services
14 %

Voith ­­Hydro
21 %

Other
15 %

Voith ­Turbo
20 %

1.3.2 Materiality – Focus on the Essentials
The results from the stakeholder survey supplied
us with the basis for a detailed materiality analysis.

Participants by Region
Absolute figures

North America
(87)

Europe
(482)

Asia
(166)

South America
(234)

*Africa, Near/Middle East, Australia/New Zealand, not specified

14 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Rest*
(79)

That enabled us to readjust our sustainability management and reporting and focus on the main
aspects. First, the relevant topics were identified. In addition to the Guidelines by the Global
Reporting Initative (GRI) and external benchmarks,
we paid particular attention to the goals of our sustainability strategy. After the individual topics had
been prioritized on the basis of the stakeholder
survey, their materiality was defined in materiality
workshops. The outcome of this analysis was presented to the Corporate Board of Management. G
To permit a better understanding of the results,
we have arranged the individual topics by field of
activity and section and shown them in the form of
a matrix. The main topics derived from the materiality analysis are assigned to the individual fields
of activity and sections.
A detailed analysis shows that the field of activity
“Product responsibility” is of greatest importance
both to internal and external stakeholders. In
contrast, the field of activity “Society” is classed
as being of relatively secondary importance. The
importance of the other fields of activity lies
between these two poles. Environmental issues
are rated more highly by external respondents
than employee-related topics. The priority among

these two subject areas is exactly the other way
round among internal stakeholders.
In general, external stakeholders have a more
critical view of Voith’s contribution to sustainability
than internal stakeholders. The students surveyed
were especially interested and critical – which is an
important signal for Voith to continue expanding
its dialog with universities.
The additional comments by stakeholders make
it clear that Voith’s values, as well as transparency and future viability, are important to participants from Europe. However, respondents in Asia
especially emphasized the issue of innovation and
adaptation of products to the Asian market.
Outlook for Stakeholder Dialog
We intend to continue our dialog with stakeholders
systematically in the coming years and expand
it to universities in particular. We will continue to
conduct the newly established stakeholder survey every two years. The next one will focus on
the field of activity “Product responsibility” and is
also to be used as the basis for revising our sustainability strategy, which we will develop further
alongside our corporate strategy.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 15

Sustainable Management

Materiality Analysis

Very important

Importance
for external
stakeholders

Important

Very important

Importance for internal stakeholders

Responsibility for Products
and Supply Chains
· Quality of the products and services
· Ensuring maximum product safety
· Dialog and cooperation with customers
· Energy efficiency of products
· Long service life of the products
· Technological expertise/innovation
·	Minimization of the environmental impacts
of products
· Sustainable supply chain

Responsibility for the Environment
· Reduction of emissions/pollutants/
waste in production
· Energy efficiency in production
· Water efficiency in production
· Material efficiency in production

Responsibility for Employees
· Personnel development/training and education
· Occupational safety
· Diversity and equal opportunity

Sustainable Management
· Long-term, trusted supplier relationship
· Long-term economic stability
·	Integration of sustainability in the Group’s
strategy
· Dialog with the company’s stakeholders
·	Responsible investment, operating and
business practices
· Mechanisms to prevent corruption and ensure
compliance
· Company’s return on investment

Responsibility for Society
· Transparent donation/sponsoring policy

Key
X axis: Survey results for the stakeholder group “Employees” (n = 316)
Y axis: Assessments of all other stakeholder groups (n = 732)

16 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

1.4 Values and Compliance
1.4.1 Our Values – Our Self-image
Our actions are founded on trust. This is reflected
in our values: professionalism, respect for the
individual, helpfulness toward colleagues, openness, reliability, and integrity. Our self-image is
encapsulated in the claim “Voith – Engineered
Reliability”: Voith delivers reliable and high-quality
technologies and acts fairly, openly, and reliably
toward its employees, partners, and customers.
We want to retain employees, who meet our performance standards at Voith, for the long term,
where possible.
We maintain partnerships with our business partners, customers, and suppliers that frequently
stretch back generations. Our values form the
foundation on which the Voith brand is built and
are the core of our corporate identity. Our values,
and the guidelines derived from them, ensure that
every employee worldwide at Voith acts according
to the same business principles and practices the
same philosophy. In this way, we combine the tradition of a family-owned company with the culture
of a global Group.
1.4.2 The Voith Compliance Organization
The Compliance Committee, which convenes every
month, is responsible for setting up, developing,
and coordinating the Voith compliance program,
reviewing the compliance regulations, and coordinating training. The Compliance Committee comprises the respective heads of the Corporate Office
(Chairman), the Group Legal Department, Group
Human Resources Management, and the Group
Audit Department. Its Chairman reports directly to
the President and CEO of Voith GmbH. The Chief
Financial Officers (CFOs) of our Group Divisions
and the individual Group companies serve as
the compliance officers in their units, where they
are responsible for implementing the Voith compliance organization. That also corresponds to
Voith’s other risk management organization. The

compliance officers are responsible for the implementation of the Code of Conduct in the individual
Group Divisions and also serve as Group-wide
contact persons.
Group-wide System for Reporting Information
and Complaints
Our overriding principle is that every employee is
responsible for compliance and acts in accordance
with prevailing law and Voith’s internal regulations.
Every employee can report a suspected violation
of the Voith Code of Conduct – either personally
through their direct supervisor or the compliance
officers of the respective Group Division, as well
as electronically via the help desk or by e-mail. We
follow up on complaints that have been submitted anonymously via a Group-wide whistleblower
system. The number and type of violations are
documented centrally. This whistleblower system
can also be accessed by external persons at any
time and so is also open to business partners and
suppliers. Any type of complaint on any subject
area can be reported. In order to ensure maximum
confidentiality, the number and nature of the complaints at Voith are not disclosed externally.
The concept, implementation and effectiveness
of our compliance system were examined by an
auditing firm and it has been certified in accordance with the standard IDW PS 980. As part of
this certification, we were given various recommendations on how the system could be further
optimized. We are currently implementing them.
Our Internal Audit department also examines
observance of all compliance regulations in a riskrelated routine approach involving around 30 random samples a year.
As at just about every company, there were also
occasional incidents of violation of the compliance regulations at Voith in the reporting period.
Appropriate action was taken in all cases.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 17

Sustainable Management

There were no legal proceedings pending due to
anti-competitive conduct or violations of antitrust
law in the reporting period.
We ensure that our business partners comply with
our regulations by means of a self-assessment
from suppliers or their representatives and consultants. In particular, we pay attention to a policy
of strict compliance with export control legislation.
Training for Employees in Compliance
All employees of Voith are required to update their
knowledge of compliance issues in e-learning
programs on a regular basis. Around 95 % of our
employees with a computer workstation completed the program on anti-corruption and antitrust law, while around 93 % underwent e-learning
on the subjects of leadership and employees.
Employees who do not have a computer workstation are given instruction by their supervisor so
that their knowledge is up-to-date.
In-person training courses were also held in the
reporting period. 631 employees took part in
30 events – mainly managers and employees from
Sales and Purchasing. Separate, especially detailed
training courses were offered to compliance officers

from the Group Divisions. These courses were
assessed positively and without any objections to
them as part of the IDW PS 980 certification of our
compliance system.
Fighting Corruption
Rigorous action against corruption is vital for Voith.
All compliance officers create a risk control matrix,
which also includes potential corruption risks, for
their specific division. All locations worldwide are
covered by this structured process. The results
of all divisions are aggregated and, among other
things, form the basis for internal compliance
audits.
Confidential Treatment of Information
Information security and protection of confidential data are core aspects of corporate security
at Voith. Every employee is expected to show an
appropriate awareness of security and sense of
responsibility. Our management system for information technology and security is certified according to the international standard ISO/IEC 27001.
The Group Directive on Information Security and
Data Protection defines regulations on how information and in particular customer data must be
handled.

Participants in the final workshop in the MBA in Sustainability Management
correspondence course of the Leuphana University Lüneburg at Voith

18 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

1.4.3 Code of Conduct for All Employees
As long ago as 1927, Voith committed itself to
upholding the following business principles: “In
the business world one must be ethical, decent
and honest. If a contracting party or a competitor
behaves unfairly, this does not give us the right to
deviate from this principle.”
These principles essentially govern our actions to
this day. Voith’s Code of Conduct defines the way
we act toward customers and business partners,
as well as how employees act toward each other
within the company. It can be viewed online and
contains information on contact persons or the
Compliance Committee. We demand that every
one of our employees abides by prevailing law
and the company’s internal regulations (compliance). That applies throughout the Group and
across all levels of the hierarchy. Violations are
punished by sanctions. The rules and procedures

are constantly updated and adapted to current
requirements. When we take investment decisions,
all aspects of our Code of Conduct are examined
as part of the due diligence review. That also
includes potential human rights violations.
The most important contents of
Voith’s Code of Conduct:
• Observance of the rules of fair competition.
• No anti-competitive agreements.
• N o corruption and bribery: No offering and granting or requesting and accepting of improper
benefits.
• Transparency of donations and sponsoring.
• S afeguarding our own trade secrets and patents
and respecting those of third parties.
• 
No impermissible preferential treatment of suppliers and service providers.
• Respect for human rights, fair working conditions, and rejection of child or forced labor. VKo

Code of Conduct
http://voith.com/de/
coc-english.pdf

Academia Meets Practice
27 students from the Leuphana University Lüneburg spent five busy days at Voith in
Heidenheim in November. They were participants in the final workshop in the MBA
in Sustainability Management correspondence course – the world’s first MBA course
in sustainability management and corporate social responsibility.
As the practical partner to Leuphana’s Center
for Sustainability Management (CSM), Voith
was both the host and object of study.
Together with experts from a wide range of
different Voith departments, the students
dealt with topical sustainability issues in small
groups during the workshop. These revealed
approaches for new strategies and potential competitive advantages from strategic
management of the value chain. However,

the main focus was on linking strategic management and operational implementation.
One objective, for example, was to tailor the
results as precisely as possible to Voith’s
general conditions. As part of that, the budding sustainability experts faced five concrete
tasks that had to be tackled with as much
practical relevance as possible as their final
dissertation.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 19

We have set ourselves the goal of continuously improving Voith’s
ecological footprint – and with our technology we also help our customers
save resources and make products in an environmentally friendly way. That
goes in particular for the strongly growing economies of Asia, above all
China. The first Voith turbine was put into operation there as long ago as
1903 and for more than twenty years we have been producing locally, such
as at Voith Paper City in Kunshan. We attach great importance to energy
efficiency, environmental protection and sustainability at all our locations –
and our efforts are acknowledged by the awards we repeatedly win.

02

Responsibility
for the Environment
We create measurable added value for Voith by
combining economic principles and environmental
aspects. In doing so, we pursue the goal of
minimizing our impact on the environment across
the entire value chain on an ongoing basis.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 21

Responsibility for the Environment

2.1 Management Approach
Voith is a globally active technology group – and
so we regard the efficient use of resources and
energy at all locations to be one of the core
aspects of our corporate responsibility. In doing
so, we combine economic principles with environmental considerations. As a result, we not only
contribute to global climate protection, but also
create measurable added value for our company.

Management
Approach
for Product
Responsibility
Section 3.1

Environmental
Guiding Principles
http://voith.com/en/
group/sustainability/
environment-607.
html

As part of systematically developing Voith into a
sustainable company, we have defined three key
aspects in the area of the environment:
• Eco Standards provides strategic and operational support for Voith’s divisions and sites in
implementing and complying with environmental regulations and internal environmental protection policies.
• Ecological Business Management (EBM)
improves energy and resource efficiency at our
production and service locations. Cost effectiveness is always a focus in that. We term these
activities “resource management”.
• Eco Technologies promotes the analysis and
assessment of Voith products and services with
respect to energy and resource efficiency and
develops the approaches and methods of EBM
further. V
The Corporate Board of Management defined
three central goals for resource and environmental
protection on the basis of fiscal year 2011/12: Voith
intends to reduce its energy needs by 20 %, the
volume of waste by 25 %, and freshwater usage
by 10 % as a percentage of sales by fiscal year
2017/18.
At the end of the reporting period, we were only
within our target corridor as regards reductions in
specific freshwater usage, which we cut by 6.9 %
over the base year.
Due to the lower overall volume of business, we
were only able to reduce specific energy consumption by 0.1 % compared with the base year. We

22 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

even recorded an increase in the specific volume
of waste by 2.9 % over the base year.
However, we were able to identify a large number
of new measures in fiscal year 2013/14 and significantly increase the related potential for reductions.
In the current fiscal year we are working to keep on
filling the pipeline of measures as quickly as possible and to implement already defined measures
even more rigorously so as to achieve our targets.
Responsibilities and Reporting Channels
The central Corporate Environment department
is responsible for all environmental activities in
the Group. It operates as a part of the Corporate
Sustainability central function and reports to the
President and CEO.
The environmental organizations in the Group Divisions help our sites to implement tasks and measures related to the environment. They report to
the relevant Group Division’s Management Board.
Standards for our Activities
We record relevant data on occupational health
and safety, and environmental protection throughout the Group using our reporting tools. They are
also used to review key figures and track our
goals for sustainability. We are guided in this by
the standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
There have been binding environmental standards
for the entire Voith Group at all levels in the value
chain since 2003. They were updated in 2012 in
the form of the Group Directive “Environment”,
which defines the framework for ecological awareness at Voith. Our seven environmental guiding
principles are also laid down in this directive. V
Statutory Framework
As a global technology group, Voith is subject to
a large number of national, regional or industryspecific laws, regulations and directives relating
to the environment. It goes without saying that we

abide by them. Among other things, we ensure
that with our Eco Compliance concept.
Environmental Representatives at
every Location
The Group Directive “Environment” obligates
every location to appoint an environmental representative. Their tasks and topics include, for
example, immission and water pollution control,
handling waste, hazardous materials and goods,
as well as avoiding environmental incidents. Furthermore, they provide advice on environmental questions for new plant and reconstruction,
approval processes, etc. and conduct regular
operational inspections and audits.

Awards
Voith’s environmental management work captured several awards in fiscal year 2013/14, such
as 2nd place in the category “Overall Concept” at
the Energy Masters Award 2014. That was presented for the new Voith Paper building in Kunshan, China.
Voith won the DEKRA Award 2014 in the category
“Environment” for the Group’s globally standardized hazardous material management system and
its rigorous efforts on its path to achieving the goal
of pollutant-free products.

DEKRA Award
Section 2.2.2

2.2 Eco Standards – Focus on Environmental Protection
2.2.1 Management Approach
Operational Environmental Protection
The aim of operational environmental protection
is to minimize all environmentally harmful effects
resulting from operations. Its activities focus on
strategic and operational control, with the aim of
ensuring implementation of and compliance with
environmental provisions. That includes in particular assessment and internal communication of
potential environmental risks as regards the likelihood of their occurring and amount of damage.
Coordination and standardization of operational
environmental protection is carried out by the
Eco Standard Team, which comprises members
from all Group Divisions and regions in addition
to the central Corporate Environment department.
In addition to location-related issues, questions
regarding hazardous materials management (e.g.
REACH), training, and management systems are
coordinated here.

Eco Compliance
The Voith Eco Compliance Concept was established at 39 locations worldwide (corresponds to
56 % of sales) by means of training and on-site
support by the end of fiscal year 2013/14. We aim
to integrate all locations in the system by the end
of fiscal year 2015/16.
Reporting System for Environmental
Incidents
We have a Group-wide reporting system to record
all environmental incidents every month on the
basis of standardized criteria and to analyze them
centrally. The results of the analysis (key figures,
examples, etc.) are reported to the Corporate
Board of Management every quarter.
The process for reporting incidents with ecological impacts is defined in the Group Directive
“Environment”. The reports are submitted centrally
to the central Corporate Environment department
and are also evaluated for local analysis at the site.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 23

Responsibility for the Environment

No incidents that were required to be reported
publicly were registered in the reporting period.
Handling of Complaints Relating to
Environmental Aspects
Everyone can contact Voith with their grievances
or complaints relating to environmental aspects.
This principle applies to our employees, as well
as suppliers, local residents or other stakeholders of our company. This possibility is also used
in practice: Two incidents, both relating to the
aspect of noise, were reported in the reporting
period. Both were dealt with and the problems
have been resolved.
Contact Point
http://voith.com/en/
group/sustainability/
environment-607.html

Complaints can be reported centrally using the
company’s website; in addition, the environmental
representative is available as a contact person at
the locations. V_

The detailed process for complaints and the escalation channels are defined in the Group Directive
“Environment” and its annex “Environmental Incidents”. The complaints are communicated along
the disciplinary and functional reporting lines
based on their severity.
2.2.2 Hazardous Materials Management
The hazardous materials at Voith include in particular coating materials such as paints, lacquers,
thinners and solvents, adhesives, resins and hardeners, lubricants, cleaning agents and industrial
chemicals.
We ensure that these substances are used and
handled as safe as possible by means of a central
process for approving hazardous materials. As part
of that, we pursue the objective of fulfilling requirements relating to protection of the environment,

Hazardous Materials Management

Hazardous
material
database

Comparing

Case-by-case
examination

Transferred

Approved

Hazardous material
and
material master

Analysis

Analyzed

Transferred

ERP system landscape

Product information

24 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

occupational safety and compliance and achieving
the greatest possible degree of standardization.
We aim to create a positive impact on risk potential
and costs by reducing the wide range of materials.
Where possible, we try to eliminate particularly
critical substances and encourage the use of
low-risk substitutes, as well as harmonize safety
standards at the company.
We began implementing a Group-wide hazardous
materials management process in 2011/12 and
completed it as planned in the reporting period. As
a result, Voith now has a central approval process
for hazardous materials worldwide. The basis for
this is a central hazardous materials database with
globally consistent assessment of the environmental, health and safety risks of work materials
and hazardous substances. That means a central

examination of legal and other requirements in the
relevant jurisdictions is possible.
The new, modular process enables us to respond
quickly and reliably to new legal or customer
requirements and reduce compliance risks. We
also impose a strict polluter pays principle to
ensure that already approved substances from the
hazardous materials database are primarily used.
Our efforts to standardize the materials used not
only reduce risks, but also produce synergies and
cost-saving potential. At the same time, the new
process offers the basis for product declarations
at the touch of a button and for reducing pollutants
in products.DEKRA
Outlook
In future we expect further tightening of legislation on chemicals and hazardous materials,

DEKRA Award 2014 for Voith’s hazardous
materials management
Stuttgart, November 2014 – In the presence of Baden-Württemberg’s Minister of Employment
and Social Affairs Katrin Altpeter, Voith was presented with the DEKRA Award for exceptional
achievements in the category “Environment”.
With the award, the jury acknowledged Voith’s
innovative hazardous materials management
system, which paves to way for the company
to achieve the goal of pollutant-free products.
The heart of the system is a database that
enables hazardous materials to be systematically identified and excluded in the design
phase. The approach goes much further than
required under the European regulation on
chemicals REACH and also includes registers
of many other countries.
A traffic-light system tells designers if a substance is toxic or its use is questionable for

legal reasons, for example. As a result, violations of the law are automatically ruled out
and customers’ wish for products free of pollutants is addressed as early as the product
development stage.
This focused and uncompromising approach
also won over the jury in the DEKRA Awards.
“The system and worldwide compliance with
the process are exemplary and innovative,”
said Professor Dr. Raimund Klinkner, President
of the German Logistics Association (BVL), in
his laudation.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 25

Responsibility for the Environment

Air Pollutants
Page 79

further bans or restrictions on specific materials,
and further labeling requirements for pollutants in
products. We have already created the foundation
for tackling these challenges with our innovative
hazardous materials management system.
We see as one of our obligations in the next two
years to continue the process of standardization
in order to press ahead with minimizing risks.
Integration of the hazardous materials databases
of all production sites in the central hazardous
materials database is a key step in that and thus
our declared goal.
2.2.3 Biodiversity
Special safety precautions and effective environmental management at Voith ensure the protection
of water quality and preservation of biodiversity at
all locations. Locations adjoining or within conservation areas are certified in accordance with
ISO 14001.

Stakeholder Dialog
and Materiality
Section 1.3

However, biodiversity is an issue of secondary
importance at Voith. That assessment was also
confirmed in the stakeholder analysis we conducted in fiscal year 2013/14. Apart from the mentioned general approaches to protect the environment, no special measures relating to biodiversity
were initiated in the reporting period.
2.2.4 Reduction of Emissions and Pollutants
Production-related air pollutants at Voith are
mainly volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and
dust. They accumulate directly during production
processes. In recording and calculating them, we
are guided by the provisions of the countries in
question and associated stipulations, such as the
VOC Directive within the European Union.

26 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Non-methane VOCs (NMVOCs) account for the
largest share of production-related air pollutants:
101 t in the reporting period. They are mainly due
to the use of lacquers and solvents. They are followed by dust emissions totaling 11 t a year. They
are almost completely caused by our foundry in
São Paulo, Brazil. Despite installing a dust removal
system last year, we expect dust emissions to
increase further there for production-related
reasons.
We were able to counter pollutant emissions by
a number of measures in the reporting period,
such as:
• The use of butanone was reduced to cut
NMVOC emissions. It is used as a solvent for
various polymers, resins and lacquers, as well
as for degreasing metal surfaces.
• In addition, systems for coating rollers with
polyurethane were enclosed and the air extraction facility was fitted with filter systems at our
Wimpassing site in Austria.
2.2.5 Noise Emissions
We try to minimize noise pollution at our locations
and rigorously follow up any information or complaints in this regard. Two complaints about noise
were reported and dealt with in the reporting
period. At the Heidenheim location, a local resident complained about the excessive noise in the
early morning hours that might have come from
Voith’s works premises. Despite intensive investigation at Voith and at the neighboring industrial
enterprises, the causes could not be identified.
At the Garching location, a resident complained
about the noise emitted by the cooling fans next
to the production building. Measurement revealed
that the noise levels were below those prescribed
by law.

2.3 Ecological Business Management – Responsible Use of Resources
2.3.1 Management Approach for Resources
In recording and controlling the raw materials
used, Voith focuses on the areas of energy, waste,
and freshwater. We determine savings potential
and implement measures for the efficient use of
resources.
At a technology company like Voith, the large
majority of the energy used and greenhouse
gases emitted come from production, and a
much smaller share from our service locations.
Ecological Business Management therefore
focuses on identifying ecological and economic
improvement potential in our production processes. As part of that, we conduct analyses at
the process, system, and component levels to
leverage cost-efficiency potential. We also carry
out hot-spot analyses to address cross-location
focal topics, such as the energy consumed during
a process step. To achieve maximum effect, we
focus on the largest drivers of consumption in our
individual regions and locations. For example, we
succeeded in the reporting period not only in defining numerous new measures, but also in boosting
the identified savings potential.
In all our EBM measures, we review achievement
of our goals by means of integrated monitoring of
key figures and development of measures. The
Corporate Board of Management is also included
in this process as part of our quarterly reporting. K
Company-wide Data Collection
Voith’s locations collect data for energy every
month and data for waste and freshwater every
quarter in the sustainability database. This data is
validated at company headquarters and reported
to the Corporate Board of Management. This

reporting comprises data and key figures, as well
as a list of the measures aimed at saving resources
and the progress made in implementing them.
Before a measure can be concluded, its effectiveness must be reviewed at the location in question and the result stored in the database. This
reporting procedure was examined and validated
by Voith’s Internal Audit unit in the early summer
of 2014.
Hot-spot analyses enable us to
tap further potential
In order to allow Voith to tap further potential
for optimization, we conducted several hot-spot
analyses in the reporting period. As part of that,
we addressed subject areas relating to a specific
location or straddling locations. The results of
these analyses are explained later in the respective report sections.
Outlook
We significantly increased the identified savings
potential in the reporting period, and the pipeline of
measures is now well-filled. Our goal in the coming
months, and in particular in relation to energy and
material/waste, is to tap further savings potential
across the entire value chain as quickly as possible and also implement the identified measures
uncompromisingly.
We aim to take pinpointed communication measures in order to sensitize plant management and
employees at the companies even more to the
issues and to motivate them to help identify savings potential and measures. We have undertaken
an initial step in that direction with a broad-scale
poster campaign that reached employees at all
Voith locations worldwide.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 27

Responsibility for the Environment

Excellent energy efficiency –
Voith’s new building in Kunshan
In the Kunshan region, near Shanghai, all Voith business segments have
their production operations on a common campus. As part of expansion
of its existing production building, Voith is again setting standards when
it comes to sustainability.
The project creates an additional 16,000 m2
of production space. The experts from the
central Corporate Environment department
were involved in the planning from the outset.
Construction of the building was also shaped
by the company’s guiding ecological and
economic principles: more than 98 % of the
construction waste was recycled. The finished
building impresses above all with particularly
low CO2 emissions – starting from the traffic
concept for employees commuting to work,
the energy supply from cogeneration plants,
to CO 2 -optimized pumps, fans and heat
exchangers.

acting ecologically also means acting economically. The entire energy concept for the
extension saves around 7,800 tons of CO2e*
a year and some € 2.3 million compared with
a conventional design.

600,000 kWh of electricity are saved on heating, cooling and lighting alone compared with
conventional plants. A special lighting system
also ensures that far less electricity is used
for light. The savings here are around 2 million
kWh a year. A key feature: generous arrays
of roof windows permit daylighting for almost
90 % of all regularly staffed workplaces. An
LED installation design by Voith springs into
action at night or if there is little daylight: 480
lights with 1,920 LED tubes over an area
of 15,000 m². Voith once again shows that

That is systematic environmental protection
that has also been acknowledged outside the
company: Shortly after being commissioned,
the production building was one of the few
industrial edifices in China to gain LEED
(Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design) Gold certification. In recognition of its
overall concept, Voith also captured second
place in the Energy Masters Award 2014, an
accolade bestowed on exemplary and trendsetting projects in the field of industrial energy
efficiency.

* CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.

28 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Apart from energy efficiency, the project in
Kunshan is also distinguished by its great
water efficiency. Intensive use of service
water and rainwater, as well as water-saving
fittings, ensure that the water resources in the
region are used sparingly. Even when choosing the lawn Voith took care that it requires
little watering.

We are currently drawing up a communication
campaign to encourage employees to submit even
more suggestions for improvement. One example
in 2015 is a contest to motivate employees to put
forward suggestions to improve our economic/
ecological performance and allow them to share
in the success of them as well.
2.3.2 Energy Efficiency and CO2 Emissions
As a result of the business situation, Voith consumed 563,591 MWh or around 6.6 % less energy
in fiscal year 2013/14 than in the previous year
(603,419 MWh). Unchanged to the previous
year, this corresponds to 105 MWh per € million
sales. That means we did not move closer in the
reporting period to our goal of reducing energy
needs by 20 % by fiscal year 2017/18. Although
the degree of implementation of the identified
energy-saving measures increased sharply, we
did not manage to compensate for the simultaneous decline in sales. In particular, the identified
measures for reducing standby losses offer even
further potential. Insourcing of our previously outsourced production operations for semi-finished
goods impeded our efforts.
15.8 % of the energy consumed at Voith came
from renewable sources and 84.2 % from nonrenewable sources. All energy sources for production-related energy consumption were
included in the calculation.
Apart from heating and cooling energy, which
accounted for 33 %, the production of paper
machine clothing is the main driver of productionrelated energy consumption at Voith. It accounts
for some 24 % of global consumption. Apart from

web processes, heat setting is especially energyintensive, in particular in felt production. 6 % of
production-related energy consumption at Voith
is incurred at the foundry in São Paulo, Brazil;
around 5 % of the energy used was consumed in
operating machine tools.
The proportion of direct (34 %) and indirect (66 %)
energy remained almost the same in the reporting
period. V

Production-related
Energy
Page 70 et seq.

Natural gas remained the key source for our
direct production-related energy consumption.
It is followed by liquefied petroleum gas, diesel,
and heating oil. We use natural gas, liquefied
petroleum gas, and heating oil as heating fuel
and for heat-intensive thermal processes. Diesel is needed to operate emergency generators
and steam generation at the locations Karawang,
Indonesia and Kunshan, China, as well as for thermal processes in São Paulo, Brazil.
Voith consumed a total of 301,020 MWh of electricity in the reporting period. The energy sources
of our electricity mix obtained from external providers remained almost the same at 71.3 % from
non-renewable and 28.7 % from renewable
resources.
The measures identified in fiscal year 2013/14
enabled us to tap additional energy-saving potential of 37 GWh. That means that, since the base
year 2011/12, we have planned energy-saving
measures of 55 GWh, or one-third of the quantity
that will probably be required to achieve the goal
in fiscal year 2017/18. We have already achieved
savings of 25 GWh from them.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 29

Responsibility for the Environment

By optimizing production processes and thanks
to our employees’ environmental awareness,
we were able to reduce energy consumption by
12,459 MWh (previous year: 5,098 MWh) and
emissions by around 2,379 t CO2e (previous year:
1,679 t).
In the reporting period, we also began certifying energy-intensive plants in accordance with
ISO 50001 in order to support systematic energy
management and a process of continuous
improvement in their energy efficiency. Certification is expected to be completed in the second
half of 2015.
Production-related
Energy Consump­
tion by Region
Page 74 et seq.

Regional Breakdown of Energy Consumption
Europe accounts for more than half Voith’s worldwide production-related energy consumption
(53 %) and it was also where most energy savings
were made within the Group in the reporting
period. er

However, there were slight increases in Asia and
South America, due to the expansion in production capacities for paper machine clothing in
Kunshan, China and the higher output from the
foundry in São Paulo, Brazil.
Total Emissions of the Voith Locations
CO 2e emissions at our locations fell in fiscal
year 2013/14 by 5 % to 176,843 t (previous year:
186,080 t). The proportion of direct CO2e emissions fell from 42,406 t to 40,409 t, or by 5 %. This
is largely due to the decrease in production at
the Heidenheim location. Indirect CO2e emissions
dropped to 136,434 t (previous year: 143,674 t),
or by 5 %.
CO 2e emissions by the Voith Group relative to
sales rose slightly. They were 33 t CO2e per € million sales (previous year: 32 t CO 2e per € million sales). Due to the different national electricity
mixes in the countries, Voith can influence the

Production-related energy consumption
Specific value in MWh/€ million sales
106

105

105

Target value
for 2017/18

84.5

In MWh

in t CO2e
604,279

603,419

183,903

37 %

Europe excluding
Germany

16 %

America

34 %

Asia
Other

13 %
<1 %
2011/12

2012/13

186,080

176,843

563,591

Germany

30 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Production-related Greenhouse Gas Emissions

2013/14

Germany

26 %

Europe excluding
Germany

10 %
36 %

America

Asia
Other

27 %
<1 %
2011/12

2012/13

2013/14

amount of CO2e emitted only by the volume of
energy consumed. This makes both ecological
and economic sense. Consequently, our particular focus is on using energy efficiently.
Regional Development of CO2e Emissions
CO 2e emissions in all Voith regions fell in absolute terms in fiscal year 2013/14. Most of Voith’s
worldwide CO 2e emissions – 36 % – are still in
Europe, which is mainly attributable to its in many
cases old building fabric and the large number of
mechanical engineering locations.
The CO 2e emissions are also relatively high in
North America (25 %) and Asia (27 %) – both
regions have a high share of energy generated
from coal in the national electricity mix. In contrast,
South America accounts for just a low proportion
(11 %) of Voith’s global CO2e emissions, despite
the energy-intensive foundry in São Paulo, Brazil.
This is mainly due to the large share of electricity
generated from hydropower in Brazil.* S
Emissions from Transport
Voith is an international group and so a not insignificant proportion of our emissions comes from
the transport of goods and from business travel.

In the reporting period, greenhouse gases totaling 46,627 t CO2e were emitted as a result of business trips (previous year: 47,435 t). 14,100 t CO2e
of that were produced by Voith’s own vehicle fleet
(Scope 1). Emissions for all other means of transport (Scope 3) were 32,527 t CO 2e in the reporting period.
Transport-related CO 2e emissions – which are
mainly caused by external logistics service providers – fell by 15 % year on year and were 30,408 t
(previous year: 35,937 t). This decline is mainly the
result of a 22 % reduction in the share of CO 2e
emissions from air cargo transports compared
with the previous year.
Voith avoids business travel where this is possible and reasonable. Video and telephone conferences are increasingly being used at our global
organization in order to save on travel expenses
and enable speedy coordination. In addition,
every offer from our travel agency partner automatically shows the CO 2e emissions incurred,
thus giving travelers a transparent overview of the
CO 2e emissions when they choose their means
of transport.

Total Energy
Consumption/
Greenhouse Gas
Emissions
Page 72 et seq.

Energy Consumption and
Greenhouse Gas
Emissions
Page 70 et seq.

* T he stated greenhouse gas emissions comprise direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) energy-related emissions. The
CO2e emissions caused by us are calculated in accordance with the sources of energy and on the basis of specific CO2e
factors. The source is our sustainability database, which provides region- and location-specific figures for each of our
energy sources. If no other information is available, we use the emission values of the electricity provider or the country
(national electricity mix).

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 31

Responsibility for the Environment

In the reporting period, we cooperated with a university in conducting a study on the subject of
“green logistics” in order to evaluate ecological
assessment criteria as part of awarding contracts
to logistics service providers. The assessment
catalog created comprises the type and replacement rate of the means of transport (e.g. truck).
Data on the transparency/insight provided by the
logistics services provider on journeys made and
ton-kilometers per means of transport, as well as
on related CO 2e emissions, was also collected.

Waste by Region
Page 77

Material
Consumption
Page 74

Measures to Reduce Energy Use and CO2
Emissions
In order to save even more energy and reduce
CO 2e emissions further, we implemented a number of measures in the reporting period. Here are
some examples:
• Reducing standby losses cuts energy consumption at the Salzgitter location (switch-off routine
for the paint shop) by 216 MWh, or 44 t CO 2e.
Switching off machines at standby times saves
207 MWh (81 t CO 2e) a year at the locations in
York and Mississauga.
• Using waste energy allowed us to cut our annual
energy consumption at the Chemnitz location by
150 MWh (30 t CO 2e). Additional savings at the
Kunshan location totaling 294 MWh (279 t CO 2e)
were enabled by demand-based control of the
fans of the dust removal system in roller coating.
• Energy efficiency in the heat setting process at
the locations in Ipoh (Malaysia) and Waycross
(US) was increased thanks to a lower process
duration and higher throughput. The savings are
400 MWh (114 t CO 2e) at Ipoh and 963 MWh
(195 t CO 2e) at Waycross.
2.3.3 Material Usage and Waste
The use of materials and raw materials is controlled Group-wide at Voith. We are continuously
working on using resources at our locations more
efficiently and recycling them. In the reporting

32 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

period, Voith procured around 131,000 t of material from suppliers, some 24 % less than the year
before (173,000 t).
The purchased materials were made up of the
following fractions: 52 % semifinished products
(previous year: 55 %), 33 % raw materials (previous year: 32 %), 10 % packaging (previous year:
9 %) and 4 % auxiliaries (previous year: 4 %). The
proportion of renewable materials was 10 % due
to the large share of wood packaging.
Just about all the fractions decreased year on
year; there was only a sharper decline for semifinished products (almost 27,000 t). This is due to
a lower volume of orders and insourcing/in-house
production of parts that used to be purchased
externally.
Around 49 % (previous year: 44 %) of the materials we used in the reporting period were recycled.
The proportion was 55 % (previous year: 46 %)
for auxiliaries, 45 % (previous year: 41 %) for raw
materials, 46 % (previous year: 42 %) for semifinished products, and 74 % (previous year: 74 %) for
packaging.
Volume of Waste
Voith produced a total of 49,490 t of waste internally (previous year: 49,574 t). Around 80 % of that
was non-hazardous waste and 20 % hazardous
waste. In absolute terms, the amount of non-hazardous waste was thus 325 t lower than the previous year, while the volume of hazardous waste
increased by 241 t. This increase is largely due
to higher output from the foundry in São Paulo,
­B razil. V_EA
Despite this fall in absolute terms, the ratio relative
to sales worsened slightly due to the lower volume
of business: the specific waste volume rose by 7 %
to 9.26 t per € million sales (previous year: 8.65 t).

The waste produced by Voith is disposed of by
external waste disposal and recycling companies.
We do not transport any waste ourselves. Voith
was not aware of any violations of the law by service providers tasked with disposing its waste in
the reporting period.
Regional Breakdown of Waste
Similar to production-related energy consumption, the largest waste volumes occur in Europe,
at 49 %, followed by South America, at 31 %. The
high waste volumes in Europe are due to the
large number of mechanical engineering locations, which involve a lot of metal processing. In all
regions except for South America, metals account
for the largest quantity of waste. The volume of
waste in South America is mainly caused by the
casting-sand waste from the foundry in São Paulo,
Brazil.

Speciﬁc value in t/€ million sales
8.65

6.75

in t
49,574

We thereby ensure that hazardous waste is
always treated in accordance with the applicable
regulations.
The largest volume of hazardous waste at Voith
is produced at the foundry in São Paulo, Brazil:
Around 4,204 t in the reporting period.

9.26

Target value
for 2017/18

51,525

Hazardous Waste
The collection of hazardous waste at Voith is
governed by internal regulations. Only qualified
specialist companies are allowed to dispose of
the waste. Voith conducts regular audits of them,
which also include an inspection of the disposal
companies’ sites and related facilities, as well as
collection and documentation of proof of disposal.

In addition, 2,998 t of hazardous waste were produced in the form of waste emulsions and washing water (Crailsheim, Munich, São Paulo), waste
from lacquering processes (Salzgitter) and steel
grit (York) in the reporting period.

Waste

9.00

Wood, paper, and cardboard waste make up a
large proportion in all regions. This is largely due
to packaging and transport security of individual
components.

49,490

Germany

40 %

Europe excluding
Germany

Measures to Improve Material Efficiency
In fiscal year 2013/14, a strong focus throughout
the Group was on uniformly assigning the waste
fractions at all locations and so on improving the
quality of the data. The objective was to obtain further information on the types and volume of waste
by means of more detailed data records and use it
to derive additional optimization measures.

9%

America

38 %

Asia
Other

13 %
<1 %
2011/12

2012/13

2013/14

The additional efficiency potential for material
usage and waste volume we were able to identify
for steel grit and an excess of roll covers, thread
spools, packaging waste, washing emulsions and
coolant emulsions, for example, is around 700 t in

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 33

Responsibility for the Environment

the reporting period. Measures with a total savings
volume of almost 1,000 t have thus been planned,
of which some 200 t have already been achieved.

43,000 m³ a year, of which measures with a potential of 32,000 m³ have already been implemented
in the course of fiscal year 2013/14.

In particular, our hot-spot analyses on cross-location focal topics, such as for waste from coolant
emulsions, washing water and wood and packaging waste, were particularly useful in this regard.

Freshwater Consumption
More than half (55 %) of freshwater consumption at
Voith is needed for cooling. Total freshwater in the
reporting period was 1,462,902 m³, an increase
of 111,001 m³ over the previous year. That corresponds to 0.27 m³ of water per € thousand sales –
as a result, we were slightly above the target level
again after falling below it earlier than planned in
the previous year (0.24 m³ per € thousand sales).

Numerous Voith locations have also developed
specific solutions for local challenges relating to
waste. Measures implemented in the reporting
period to increase material efficiency and reduce
the volume of waste included:
• At the Garching location, coolant emulsion
rinsed with chips is returned from the chip container to the system, reducing waste by 145 t a
year. If the coolant emulsion has to be replaced,
the volume of emulsion is treated using vacuum
distillation at our Kunshan, China location, saving 40 t a year.
• Installation of a paint shop with a dry separator
means that waste at the Salzgitter location has
been reduced by 70 t a year.
• Optimization of the extrusion length in roller coating at the Heidenheim location cuts waste by 22 t
a year.
2.3.4 Efficient Use of Water and Wastewater
We work uncompromisingly to ensure that water
is used as efficiently as possible in our processes
and that the volume of wastewater is minimized. In
the area of water consumption, hot-spot analyses
in the reporting period revealed additional savings potential of 33,000 m³ of freshwater a year.
The pipeline of measures has thus increased to

34 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

The main reason for that is commissioning of
the new Training Center at Heidenheim, where
groundwater is used for energy-efficient cooling of
the building. The full impact of the closed cooling
cycle established at the Garching location in the
third quarter of fiscal year 2013/14 is not included
in full in the above key figure. However, this measure will probably mean that the figure falls below
the target mark again next year.

Freshwater Consumption
Speciﬁc value in m3/€ thousand sales
0.29
Target value
for 2017/18

0.24

0.27
0.26

into rivers, lakes, or the soil and 54 % (previous
year: 56 %) into the sewage system. The year-onyear increase of 63,298 m³ is largely explained
by the use of cooling water in the new Training
Center in Heidenheim; after being used for cooling, this water is fed into the groundwater via an
absorbing well.

in thousand m3
1,683
1,352

1,463

Germany
51 %
Europe excluding
Germany

13 %

America

20 %

Asia
Other

16 %
<1 %
2011/12

2012/13

The main key figures have been recorded in order
to provide more detailed information about the
effects of the process wastewater we discharge.
During the reporting period, the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) was 14 t (previous year: 9 t),
and the chemical oxygen demand (COD) was 48 t
(previous year: 32 t). The overall suspended matter
content of the water was 9 t (previous year: 11 t);
as in the previous year, there was less than 1 t of
heavy metals, nitrogen and phosphorus.

2013/14

Regional Breakdown of Water Consumption
64 % of our water consumption is in Europe, 10 %
in North and South America respectively, and 16 %
in Asia. In Europe, freshwater is used for cooling
and operating pilot facilities. In Asia, the production of paper machine clothing represents a significant driver. In South America, a large quantity of
water is used for cooling at the foundry in São
Paulo, Brazil. In North America, our yarn and felt
production locations use large amounts of water.
Wastewater
The volume of wastewater in the reporting period
was 1,261,810 m³ (previous year: 1,198,512 m³).
Around 46 % (previous year: 44 %) was discharged

Measures to Improve Water Efficiency
The following measures were implemented in the
reporting period to improve water efficiency:
• A system for recirculating the cooling water
was commissioned at the Garching location,
eliminating the need to cool groundwater. As a
result, around 190,000 m³ of freshwater a year
are saved. A closed cycle for cooling water at
the Shanghai location saves and additional
10,400 m³ a year.
• Rigorous monitoring of freshwater consumption
enabled leaks to be identified and rectified at
the locations West Monroe (US) and Liaoyang
(China).
• Use of rainwater at the Chemnitz and Crailsheim
locations reduces consumption by 200 m³ and
550 m³ a year respectively.

Water Consumption
by Region
Page 75

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 35

Asia’s emerging markets are of strategic importance for Voith – their
economic development is unrivaled in terms of dynamism. All Voith
Group Divisions are present in Asia, and Voith products contribute to the
development of the region: In the world’s largest hydropower plants and
in a wide range of industry sectors, from papermaking to the automotive
sector. We increasingly focus on locally developed and manufactured
products and services that are tailored to local needs. At the same time,
Asian companies play a major role in our global supply chains – 9% of our
procurement volume comes from the region.

03

Responsibility for
Products and
Supply Chains
We want to create environmental and economic
added value for our customers with our products
and services. We attach great importance to energy
and resource efficiency in both the manufacturing
and usage phases. We make sure that internationally
recognized environmental and social standards
are observed in our entire sphere of influence. In
short, we set the bar high – for ourselves and for
our suppliers.
Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 37

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains

3.1 Product Responsibility
Stakeholder Dialog
and Materiality
Section 1.3

3.1.1 Management Approach
Products and services from Voith are successful
in five global markets: Energy, Oil & Gas, Paper,
Raw Materials, and Transport & Automotive – and
our company's solutions are just as varied as
these markets. As part of the materiality analysis,
we defined fields of activity that are key to our
product management across all markets.V
In addition to the safety and quality of our products, close and trusted dialog with our customers
plays a central role. Many of them are long-time
partners. Their expectations are incorporated in
the development of our products and at the same
time, our consulting creates the foundation for
safe and resource-efficient use of Voith products.

Management
Approach for the
Environment
Section 2.1

Our products and services are intended to contribute to the protection of resources and the environment – across the entire value chain. In order to
meet this requirement, we have firmly anchored it
as one of our corporate focal points – Eco
Technologies.V
We constantly create added value for our customers, thanks to our technological expertise and our
ability to translate know-how into innovations –
so research and development has always been of
key importance for Voith. The Group holds several
hundred active patents – and 219 new patents
were added in the reporting period alone. Our R&D
expenditure in 2013/14 amounted to € 216 million
(previous year: € 242 million). As a percentage of
Group sales, R&D expenditure was 4.0 % (previous year 4.2 %).
3.1.2 Challenges in the Area of
Product Responsibility
In managing our product responsibility, we face a
number of particularly pronounced challenges that
vary depending on the Group Division and market.

38 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

In mechanical and plant engineering, we supply
components that have different impacts on the
energy balance of the overall system. Wherever
possible, we support our customers in increasing
the efficiency of their facilities and production processes. As a result we do not only cut costs, but
also reduce environmental impacts. For example,
further development of the Voith HyCon™ family
in the hydropower segment enables optimization
of the entire plant and not just Voith’s components.
To achieve this, the specifications are adapted to
changing conditions during use – resulting in positive effects on the overall system’s efficiency and
service life.
In order to remain competitive and also maintain
our leading position in many markets, we work
continuously to increase our profitability. The focus
of this differs in every Group Division.
The current emphasis at Voith Turbo is on cutting
product costs and reducing production time. The
challenges for Voith Paper lie in greater standardization and modular design. Voith Hydro has to
contend with prices that are falling overall in the
market. In this regard, it is crucial for Voith to safeguard its renowned level of quality at all locations
and utilize cheaper materials.
3.1.3 Quality and Safety
Voith’s products and services stand for safety and
quality worldwide. We use a Group-wide technical
risk and quality management (TRQM) system to
control goals, processes and methods in the development and production phase. We conduct risk
assessments to review the safety of our products.
A Group-wide initiative called “Excellence@Voith”
focuses on the quality of our products and processes, with the aim of achieving operations excellence. We continuously work to enhance this, on
the basis of clearly defined performance indicators.

We have set out our principles for dealing with
technical risks and quality in a binding Group
Directive. The Group Divisions and their companies specify and supplement this directive.
3.1.4 Products and Services that
Conserve Resources and the Environment
We pursue the strategic approach that our products make a contribution to protecting resources
and the environment. By doing so, we fulfill customers’ requirements, statutory stipulations and,
not least, our own mission. Our goal is to make our
products increasingly eco-friendly and resourceefficient, during both their manufacture and subsequent use.
Particularly in the case of large plants and units,
e.g. in the field of hydropower, our customers
keep an eye on their energy needs and material
consumption during the usage phase in order to
optimize their operating expenses.
Voith Paper uses an increasing number of renewable materials instead of oil-based products and
works uncompromisingly to establish closed
cycles for materials, auxiliaries and supplies. The
objective is to efficiently design and construct
machines that are as resource-efficient as possible, generating maximum value-added for our
customers. We check this requirement at the
“Market Test Level” during the stage gate process.
Voith Turbo is also guided by the principle of
offering product generations that are increasingly
energy-efficient and less harmful to the environment. The focus here is on the impact a Voith component makes on total cost of ownership.K

have conducted life cycle assessments (LCA) for
selected products in compliance with ISO 14040
and 14044.
In the reporting period, we conducted an LCA for
a Kaplan turbine and a generator in one project.
This revealed that the environmental impacts of
manufacturing are practically negligible compared
to the usage phase – as is the case for most of
our products, which are distinguished by their long
service life. The energy needed to produce paper
machines compared to the level required during
the usage phase is 1:300, for example.
We support our customers with special training
and consulting on how to operate our products in
the most resource-conserving way. For example,
we investigate the potential for increasing the efficiency of existing hydroelectric turbines and generators at existing facilities. In paper machine optimization, we work closely with our customers to
improve the use of raw materials through recycling
and to reduce power consumption through energy
audits. The goal is to develop energy-efficient and
water-efficient products, further reducing the total
cost of ownership. We also offer training on the
correct use of drives, turbines, pumps and compressors, either at our training center or on-site
at the customer’s premises. We provided around
1,300 hours of training in the reporting period (previous year around 1,000).
In the reporting period, we again accomplished
numerous projects to reduce environmental
impacts and, in some cases, achieved significant
cuts in energy and resource consumption.

We document and certify what we do in accordance with the relevant standards (ISO 9001,
ISO 14001 and OHSAS), supplementing these
with our own methods. For some years now, we

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 39

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains

Eco Technologies Assesses Energy and
Raw Materials Efficiency
We mainly supply components that are part
of an overall system and as such, they have
different impacts on the energy and material
balance – this means that we have to use
various tools to obtain a detailed assessment
of the energy and raw materials efficiency of
our products.

by total cost of ownership – and up to three
product-specific environmental topics, such
as use of energy, use of materials and noise
emissions, are compared with one another. A
product can only be said to be “economically
and ecologically more efficient” if there is an
improvement in both dimensions.

The Eco Technologies team promotes the
analysis and assessment of Voith products
and services with respect to energy and
resource efficiency, and Eco Technologies
cooperates with other companies, universities, and research institutions to achieve this.
Its goal is to identify economic and environmental trends and to determine the maturity
and the cost effectiveness of the technologies
available to Voith on the market. In addition,
Eco Technologies also assesses risks for the
Group which may arise from the use of certain
materials and develops measures for effectively countering these risks.

The results from the assessments deliver
important pointers for evaluating and developing the Voith product portfolio from the
Group perspective. They can also provide
fundamental stimuli for Product Development
and Sales at the Group Divisions, helping to
ensure that customer requirements relating to
sustainability are better fulfilled and securing
the “license to operate” in the long term.
Example of a Voith Eco Efficiency Assessment
Comparison of grinding sets, 1985 –2012
(1985)

During the reporting period, this team developed its own methodology for showing the
progress made regarding environmental and
customer benefits during the usage phase
of products. In these Voith Eco Efficiency
Assessments, the Voith product in question
is compared with a reference value, such
as an earlier product generation or a rival
product. The customer benefit – measured

40 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

(1995; 1999;
2002; 2005)

(2008;
2012)

80%

Environmental benefits

The Eco Technologies Team also supports the
cross-divisional environmental innovation process. The process team is made up of Corporate Environment, the R&D departments of our
Group Divisions, Product Management and
Corporate Strategy.

60%
40%
20%
0%

0%

20%
Customer benefits

Energy efficiency
Abrasive efficiency
Noise reduction

40%

60%

Energy
In the hydropower segment, we were tasked
with using aerating turbine technology at the
Brownlee Dam in Idaho, US, in order to increase
the content of dissolved oxygen at the lower
reaches of the power plant. Aerating runners
enrich the water with natural oxygen from the
air. As a result, additional compressors can be
dispensed with, energy requirements are lower,
and the efficiency of the turbines is impaired to
a far lesser extent. Turbine efficiency is 3–5 %
higher and power consumption is lower – a dual
benefit for customers and the environment.
• 
During the reporting period, we won the first
commercial order for our eco-friendly compact
turbine StreamDiver. We also reached the final
of the German Innovation Award with this technology and achieved a top 4 position in the category “Large Enterprise” from a field of more than
300 entrants. StreamDiver turbines boast particular ecological advantages thanks to their waterlubricated bearings, allowing operation that is
totally free of oil and grease.

•

•

Paper
Voith developed various solutions for paper makers during the reporting period. These solutions
not only deliver ecological improvements, they
also give customers cost advantages.
• 
Voith has developed a process that closes the
raw materials cycle in the dry cleaning of used
paper machine clothing. Up to now, clothing has
either undergone thermal recycling or been disposed of by dumping after being used in the
paper machine. The new method enables recycling of the thermoplastic materials used.
• A constantly high level of web dewatering is vital
for a consistently high quality of the paper produced. Polyurethane roll covers not only deliver
clear economic benefits, they considerably
reduce water consumption and decrease power
consumption.

he resource-efficient flotation technology
T
LowEnergyFlotation (LEF) won the European
Paper Recycling Award in October 2013. This
award is presented annually by the European
Recovered Paper Council. LEF significantly
reduces the energy required to remove printing
ink from the paper fibers during recycling.

Drive systems
In the reporting period, we pressed ahead with
the development of additional variants of the
Vorecon drives, which increase the efficiency of
pumps and compressors by up to 15 %.
• 
In future, Voith Schneider Propellers will also
possess an operating idle mode. Weather conditions permitting, one of the two propellers can
be switched off and remains in standby mode.
This reduces fuel consumption by around 3 %, as
well as wear and tear during operation.
• 
In the reporting period, a Voith Schneider Propeller (VSP) was successfully tested with biodegradable oil. The eco-friendly lubricant ensures
that leaks do not pose a risk to marine life. In
addition, the VSP’s low rotational speed means
a very long service life for the oil, unmatched by
any other ship propulsion system.
• A two-stage air compressor newly developed in
the reporting period is already being used by
several customers. Compared to current models, the new compressor’s energy consumption
in idle mode is around 44 % lower.
• The Voith CSH die cushion drive is a flexible
servo-hydraulic press drive system that recovers
virtually all of the ram motion energy in the form
of electrical energy. Compared to a conventional
hydraulic die cushion drive without servo technology, it reduces energy costs by up to 80 %.
•

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 41

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains

3.1.5 Outlook for Product Responsibility
We will continue to specifically define the current
“Product Responsibility” topics during the current fiscal year. To achieve this, we will be asking internal and external stakeholders questions
about the contribution they feel Voith makes in
relation to sustainability (among other topics). A
master’s thesis we are funding will also deal with
this subject.

We assume that environmental legislation will
become more stringent in the future and that
customers will demand that our products make
an even more efficient contribution to protecting
the environment and conserving resources. That
goes for all Voith Group Divisions. The growing
complexity of the challenges many of our customers face in their markets results in an increasing
demand for solutions from a single source.

3.2 Supplier Management
3.2.1 Management Approach
Our understanding of entrepreneurial responsibility
also includes our suppliers. We want to ensure
sustainability in all our supply chains and as part
of this, we are committed to long-term, trusted
relationships with our suppliers. In the materiality analysis, these aspects were also classified as
being essential to our sustainability management.
In order to identify and assess risks in the supply
chain, we will identify the most important economic,
ecological and social risks in our supply chains by
means of a study we are currently preparing. To
this end, we intend to create a geographical risk
map by the close of fiscal year 2015/16, and use
this to derive needs-driven concepts and strategies, as well as concrete measures for Voith. Not
least, the study will help Voith define the complex
issue of sustainability in the supply chain more
specifically and tangibly.
3.2.2 Controlling Complex Supply Chains
In fiscal year 2013/14 Voith ordered materials
and services worth € 2,961 million. The range of

42 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

procured goods is very broad. In the area of production material alone, it extends from procurement of a one-millimeter nut to 250-millimeter
thick steel plate, from special lacquering match
customer requirements to electric cables made
specially for Voith. As in the previous year, most
of the purchase volume for production material in
the reporting period was for the material group
“electrical/electronics”. That was followed by cast
parts and semifinished products/steel. G
As an international company, Voith works with
suppliers from almost 100 countries. Most of the
goods come from European suppliers.
We aim to systematically increase the volume
we purchase locally in accordance with the principle “local for local”. This should reduce costs
and transport-related CO2 emissions and solidify
local relationships with suppliers. There were also
various purchasing initiatives, in which production
was converted to assembly and components were
procured on site.

Controlling complex and heterogeneous supply
chains is a challenge for Voith’s Purchasing department, which is divided into central and decentralized and strategic and operational responsibilities.
Sustainability topics are mainly assigned to the
Corporate Strategic Purchasing (CSP) department.
The relevant activities are coordinated across divisions on the Global Purchasing Board (GPB) with
representatives from the Group Divisions.

The “preferred supplier” concept is especially
important in this regard. Although it does not obligate us to purchase goods solely from selected
suppliers, it is intended to encourage our employees to use individual supplier relationships particularly intensively.

Just as we demand the very highest standards
of ourselves, we also expect sparing use of resources and social responsibility from our suppliers. We have firmly established these requirements
in our Purchasing Guiding Principles and defined
concrete objectives.

Clearly Defined Standards as a Foundation
As a group, Voith must ensure that orders are
reviewed, awarded, and processed transparently.
Adherence to local legal provisions on environmental protection and labor laws, as well as the
strict avoidance of corruption and forced labor
form the fundamental principles of our day-to-day
business – and these principles also apply for our
suppliers.

3.2.3 The Aim – Long-term,
Trusted Relationships
Our mission to enhance sustainability also extends
to our suppliers. By striving for a long-term, trusted
partnership, we do not simply want to create
particularly cost effective solutions together with
them – we also want to optimize our purchasing
processes in terms of sustainability.

Our basic concept of partnership and our requirements relating to compliance, as well as environmental and social standards, are laid down in the
Code of Conduct and in the General Purchasing
Conditions (GPC). The GPCs serve as the basis
for concluding agreements with our suppliers and
also ensure that their subcontractors abide by
these requirements.

General Purchasing
Conditions
http://voith.com/en/
group/purchasing/
general-purchasingconditions--176.html

Total purchasing volume of the Voith Group: € 2,961
in € millions

Production
material
1,916 (65 %)

Non-production
material
1,045 (35 %)

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 43

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains

The parallel GPCs of Voith and Voith Industrial
Services are to be standardized in one single form
in fiscal year 2014/2015. In addition, we are creating further country-specific versions in order to
increase their range of coverage in a coordinated
way. The GPCs are available on the Internet and
also include a reference to our up-to-date Code
of Conduct.
Extensive Training
We illustrate our vision of sustainability in purchasing to employees in our Purchasing Guiding
Principles and Voith Purchasing Manual. Our
employees are regularly trained in supplier selfassessment and evaluation, visit reports, and
compliance with laws and directives. Instructors
with a good knowledge of local conditions also
deal with special cultural and local aspects as
part of in-person training courses. The goal here
is to provide our employees with the best possible
preparation for their international working environment. The “Purchasing Training Program”, specially put together for buyers, is being extended
to our sites in Asia and South America.
3.2.4 Sustainability in the Supply Chain
One important field of activity for Voith’s Purchasing
department is handling risks in the procurement
process. We minimize these risks by requesting
regular self-assessments from our suppliers. As
part of these, we record information on sustainability topics using a dedicated questionnaire.
Our goal was to survey the largest suppliers based
on fiscal year 2012/13 in order to collect data on
those who account for 80 % of our invoice volume
in the medium term. However, our supplier base
changed significantly during the survey and is now
more fragmented, with the result that we have covered 27.8 % of our invoice volume for 2013/14 so
far. We aim to increase the degree of coverage
successively in the coming years with a far larger
selection of suppliers.

44 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

In addition to the initial self-assessment, employees from the departments and Purchasing are
to evaluate the suppliers with the largest order
volume once a year. A standardized process with
transparent criteria ensures that the results can be
compared throughout the Group. It also reveals
strengths and weaknesses of the suppliers and
potential risks. The supplier evaluation is also used
as the basis for specifying the preferred suppliers with whom we wish to cooperate as strategic
partners.
5,129 suppliers were evaluated in the reporting
period. 61 % of the invoice volume was transacted with partners for whom there is an up-todate, approved supplier evaluation in our central
supplier database. The proportion in the previous
year was 76 %, while our goal for the reporting
period was 79 %. The increased fragmentation of
our supplier base (mentioned above) also had an
impact on this.
In the fiscal year 2014/15, we aim to maintain the
current ratio – and as well as collecting data, we
also aim to focus more on content evaluation. Here,
among other topics, we intend to revise the sustainability criteria that are applied. We use these
social and ecological criteria as the basis for calculating the “sustainability ratio”, i.e. the average
rating the evaluated suppliers have achieved for
the sustainability criteria. In the reporting period,
the partners we evaluated achieved an average
of 75 out of 100 points. The difference from the
previous year’s figure (80/100) is in line with the
normal fluctuation range.
Violations by suppliers against contractually
defined standards initially result in a warning to
desist. Concrete improvements are also demanded
and if these are not achieved, Purchasing is
required to terminate the business relationship
and block the supplier.

We implemented the “Blocked Supplier” concept
throughout the Group in the reporting period.
Seven suppliers were blocked group-wide in fiscal
year 2013/14; however, none of them had violated
social or ecological standards.
Suppliers can report violations of sustainability
standards in the supply chain on their own initiative. Like our employees, they can also use Voith’s
anonymous compliance help desk. There were no
reports in the reporting period.
Systematic Data Management
The results of the supplier evaluations and the data
from self-assessments and contracts are stored in
our central database SupplierManagement@Voith
(SM@V). It acts as a central work aid for buyers and
helps enhance transparency in our supply chains
and reduce risks in the procurement process. The
database grew further in fiscal year 2013/14 and
its quality was optimized with improved interfaces
to our ERP (enterprise resource planning) systems,
for instance.

prepare recommendations on what action Voith
should take.
3.2.5 Outlook for Supplier Management
We aim to penetrate our supply chains in even
greater detail and depth in the current fiscal year.
We expect the study on risks in the procurement
process to supply us with important findings,
in particular against the backdrop of growing
internationalization.
The Group’s information base is also to be
improved further by targeted management of the
supplier and material master data. This will enable
us to respond to more stringent customer requirements, to laws and to disclosure obligations, such
as the Dodd-Frank Act in the US relating to conflict
minerals.

The newly introduced Voith database for work and
hazardous materials enables the declaration of
materials and the standardized, uniform handling
of safety data sheets and product information from
the manufacturers. Our suppliers are obligated by
law to provide us with their safety data sheets.
As of fiscal year 2014/15, they will also be automatically requested to declare the substances and
compositions in the products they supply.
In the reporting period, Voith established a working group consisting of representatives from
Purchasing, the Legal department and the central
Corporate Sustainability department to deal with
the issue of minerals that are mined or produced in
conflict regions (“conflict minerals”). The objective
is is to collect all information centrally (including
related inquiries from customers), to analyze it and

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 45

The dual-training model is an important tool for securing a supply of
young talents in Germany. We have also trained young people in Brazil
using this concept for 50 years. Now we have also exported dual
training – our concept for vocational qualification – to China. The first
industrial-technical trainees have been preparing for their career at the
new Voith China Training Center in Kunshan since August 2014. Following
their theoretical training, they will complete a one-year practical phase at
Voith and obtain an education tailored specifically to industrial companies. Voith’s customers and partners from local companies can also use
the training center near Shanghai for courses for their employees.

04

	Responsibility for
Employees
As a family-owned company, Voith has by tradition
a special responsibility toward its employees.
We know: Qualified, motivated and committed
employees are the drivers behind our success. That
is why we strive, wherever possible, to offer our
employees long-term employment relationships and
an attractive working environment with individual
development opportunities. To this end, we take
account of their individual life circumstances and
provide tailored career paths.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 47

Responsibility for Employees

4.1 Management Approach
Voith’s global footprint, the ever increasing internationalization of our business, and the rapidly
changing requirements in labor markets throughout the world – those are the crucial challenges
in human resources (HR). One issue of growing
importance in Europe and the US is also planning
the successors to employees who will retire in the
coming years.
To overcome these challenges, we continued a
multi-year transformation process as part of our
“Excellence@Voith” initiative in fiscal year 2012/13.
Its objective is to enhance the quality of HR work
at Voith and make internal processes leaner and
more efficient.
This bundle of measures is intended to help ensure
that the required employees with the necessary
qualifications can be deployed at the right time in
all markets (availability). Second, we implement
measures that qualify and motivate our employees
throughout their career at Voith in an optimal manner (effectiveness).
All HR activities contribute to the achievement of
these two goals and are also assigned to one of
our three focal topics:
• Personnel development/training and education
• Occupational health and safety
• Diversity and equal opportunity.
Group-wide HR Information System
We implement various methods, tools, and
IT-based processes in order to manage our HR
work. We will use our “People Excellence Platform”
(pep.) in future to control relevant HR process at
Voith – from recruitment and further development of employees to succession planning. The
HR information system maps our organizational
structure globally and contains qualification and

48 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

development information about our employees. It
allows us to determine the status quo and any
need for action for Group Divisions, regions, and
locations more precisely, as well as create greater
transparency about reporting lines.
We reached key milestones in implementing pep.
in the reporting period. All employee data has been
available since fiscal year 2013/14. At the end of
2013, the Management Review process was handled globally using pep. for the first time. We also
conducted various projects for individual modules
of pep., such as for goal agreements (Brazil) or
employee dialog (worldwide) with selected groups.
The entire performance management process is
to be mapped in pep. by the end of fiscal year
2014/15.
Shared Service Centers relieve from
Routine Tasks
We completed our review of structures at Human
Resources as planned in the reporting period. On
the basis of the results, we designed a new operating model, which we intend to implement by the
end of the current fiscal year. HR work at Voith will
be shaped in the future by the interplay of shared
services, subject-specific competence centers,
and the requirements of business partners within
the company.
Four internationally distributed Shared Service
Centers now handle tasks such as payroll, time
management or HR administration Group-wide
using a service approach that is standardized
throughout the company. As a result, we create
the conditions for Voith-wide standardization,
automation and, at the same time, modernization of HR processes, ranging up to expansion of
self-service options for employees and managers.
In this way, we want to reduce the workload on

Kunshan near Shanghai (China) is home to one of the four Shared Service Centers.

managers and HR experts, gain valuable time to
provide employees with more personalized support, and give ourselves more freedom to address
strategic tasks, such as succession management
or further development of employees.
We pool our know-how on strategic HR topics
and define Voith-wide standards at three global
competence centers. The employees at the competence centers are the contact persons and consultants for their internal business partners.
In order to measure the success of our activities,
we are currently formulating a stringent monitoring
system and defining key performance indicators.

The aim is to complete this process by the end of
fiscal year 2015/16.
Voith as an Employer
In fiscal year 2013/14, the Voith Group employed
41,651 people (previous year: 47,111). That corresponds to 39,302 full time equivalent jobs (excluding apprentices), 3,832 or 9 % less than in the
previous year (September 30, 2013: 43,134). This
decrease contains 3,141 jobs no longer included
as a result of larger changes in the consolidated
group. We also reduced the permanent workforce
at the Voith Group by 691 FTE jobs.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 49

Responsibility for Employees

Around 56  % of our employees (FTE jobs excluding apprentices) work in Europe, 29 % in America,
14 % in Asia and 1 % in Africa. The proportion of
women employees fell in the reporting period to
19.7 %, the number of temporary employment contracts declined by 11.4 % to 5,650.
Values and
Compliance
Section 1.4

Value-oriented Corporate Culture
Working at Voith is characterized by a value-oriented corporate culture. In addition, we firmly
believe in the concept of lifelong learning and support our employees in their further professional
development. In order to allow our employees to
better balance their professional challenges with
their private concerns, we offer a family-friendly
work model. The equal status of all employees,
observance of human rights, and action against
discrimination are mandatory guiding principles for
our company. V
Voith recognizes the right of its employees around
the world to form unions. In Germany, 86 % of our
employees were covered by collective bargaining
agreements during the reporting period; the figure
worldwide was 72 %. Dialog between Group management, employees, and local HR departments
takes place with the involvement of local employee
representatives. Within the individual countries,
the relationships are structured in accordance with
national labor contracts and collective bargaining
agreements. Fundamental changes are communicated to employees at all our sites in a timely
manner by the Corporate Board of Management
or local management. As part of that, we strive
to inform employees as soon as possible, using
various communication channels, in particular the
intranet, video and telephone conferences, notice
boards, employee magazines and other media for
employees.

50 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Leadership at Voith –
Focus on Development and Feedback
Managers at Voith are expected to provide their
employees with the framework to allow the latter to fulfill their responsibility for the joint objectives and at the same time be able to unfold and
further develop their own talents. Our managers
are helped in that by our management guidelines
and leadership tools, whose focus is on development and feedback. Core elements in this regard
are the employee dialog and the goal agreement.
Whereas the performance review is used to discuss the orientation and employee’s individual
contribution to achievement of the company’s
objectives, the employee dialog deals with topics such as the working relationship between
employee and manager, professional goals and
perspectives, and the need for further training.
The results of these meetings form the basis for
enabling us to determine what individual and general further training our employees need.
Voith conducts an annual review of managers’ performance, as part of which their individual potential
is assessed and appropriate development measures derived.
In the reporting period, 84 % (previous year: 88 %)
of employees in machine and plant engineering
took part in such a meeting. Expansion of IT systems in the HR arena will also result in improved
monitoring, enabling us to make a statement on
the number of participants for the company as
a whole.
We still face the challenge of selecting managers
systematically worldwide and developing them in
a pinpointed manner.

The Objective: Long-term Cooperation
Where possible, Voith is committed to long-term
employment relationships. The average length of
service Group-wide in the reporting period rose
to 9.1 years (previous year: 8.2 years) as a result
of the sale of parts of the company. Employees
at our locations in Europe (excluding Germany)
worked an average of 10.8 years and those at
North America 7,0 years for Voith. In fast-growing
markets, such as Brazil and China, we have hired
many employees over the last few years. The
length of service there is accordingly lower: Voith
employees in Asia worked an average of 5.4 years
for our company and in South America 6.2 years.
The employee turnover rate for the Voith Group
during the reporting period was 20.2 % (previous
year: 15.9 %). Of this, 8.2 % of our employees left
the company at their own initiative. The employee
turnover rate increased in all areas. It was lowest in machine and plant engineering (12 %), and
was very high in service business (27.1 % ). In order
to obtain further indicators as to why employees
leave Voith, we conduct exit interviews with them.
These are obligatory for staff who work in industrial
services.

In Germany, Voith offers employees fringe benefits,
such as a company pension scheme, disability
and invalidity pensions, group accident insurance,
and healthcare services. However, these general
conditions do not exist across the board; due to
historical reasons, the scopes of application and
variants differ at the individual Voith companies
and business establishments. Wherever fringe
benefits are offered, they are in principle available
to all employees, regardless of their gender or type
of employment relationship (full-time/part-time,
temporary/permanent).
Awards
Voith won various awards as an employer in the reporting period. For example, the Baden-Württem­
berg company network familyNET acknowledged
Voith’s exceptional commitment to family-friendly
corporate structures by presenting it with the title
“Family-friendly Enterprise”. Voith also captured
the HR Excellence Award for the most innovative
job advertisement. The jury was impressed by a
novel combination of traditional ad text and a short
video that can be shared over social media such
as Twitter or Facebook. V

Family and Career
Section 4.3

Performance-based Remuneration
The compensation Voith pays its employees is in
line with the market, irrespective of gender, and
based on specialist qualifications and performance. Remuneration and benefits vary by region.
At our German sites, the level of wages and salaries is generally regulated by collective bargaining.
At our international sites, we ensure that the locally
valid minimum wage is complied with and that this
ensures the livelihood of our employees.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 51

Responsibility for Employees

4.2 Personnel Development, Training and Education
Lifelong learning is part of Voith’s corporate culture. We both challenge and develop our employees equally, yet expect a desire to achieve in
return, and help them keep on developing. Our
personnel development measures are tailored
to the challenges of the region, field of work and
management level. We provide young people with
training that offers them good chances to be kept
on afterwards.
Recruiting the Right Employees
We are represented at many locations worldwide
where there is fierce competition for qualified
employees. Our complex service and product
portfolio means we also have to address a broad
range of target groups – from unskilled workers
to top-class engineers who have an affinity for
research.
In order to reach all these target groups, we present Voith as a modern, future-oriented employer.
As part of that, we are gradually strengthening
our activities in the social web, without forgetting
the importance of personal contact. We address
students directly through partnerships with and
international personnel marketing measures at
universities and enable them to gain an insight
into our company as a potential employer. We also
award scholarships or promote competitions in
regions where we operate.
We intend to increase the awareness and reputation of Voith as an employer at all our locations in
order to survive in the global “war for talents”. We
also aim to make our recruiting even more professional, not least by adapting and standardizing the
processes involved. We took a major step toward
that in the reporting period by introducing the pep.
recruiting module worldwide. Rollout of it started
in China in 2013 and was continued in Brazil and
North America in 2014. The module will be implemented in Germany and Austria in 2015.

52 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

In addition, the issue of mobile recruiting was tackled with greater intensity and work was carried
out to optimize Voith’s career sites. In this regard,
we have increasingly used social media and the
possibilities offered by the mobile internet for a
number of years.
Training for More Than 100 Years
Voith has lived up to its responsibility toward coming generations of skilled workers for more than
100 years. We train young people in more than
40 commercial, technical, and industrial professions, and we usually keep them on when they
finish their vocational training. During the reporting
period, we employed 1,294 apprentices (previous
year: 1,197), to whom we were usually able to offer
employment afterwards. 918 apprentices worked
in Germany, 437 of them at Heidenheim. Of our
currently 91 students in the dual training model,
64 are in technically oriented courses and 27 are
enrolled in business administration subjects. We
further strengthened the status of training at Voith
in the reporting year with the construction of two
Voith training centers – one at our headquarters in
Heidenheim, the other in Kunshan, China.
We also recruit apprentices with technical and
business administration qualifications worldwide.
As part of the “Global Graduate Program”, we offer
them a challenging introduction to our company:
participants combine practical experience with
training, are coached by a mentor, and work in
various Group Divisions and regions.
Training and Education
We always want to have the right employee with
the right qualifications and skills to match at the
right place in the company. To enable that, Voith
offers its employees and managers access to
internal and external further education and qualification measures.

Leadership-Programs
Overview
Voith-Programs

Executive
Management
Program
Voith Academy
International
Management Program
Advanced Leadership
Program
Start-up Leadership Program
Start-up Leadership Program Operations

In fiscal year 2013/14, a total of 3,443 employees
at the German locations (previous year: 3,915) took
up such offerings and completed 97,056 hours of
further education (previous year: 127,379 hours).
We offer employees from Purchasing, Finance,
and Human Resources, as well as project managers, training at the Voith Management School.
Voith training sessions offer a broad range of further education to all other employees.
The subjects cover work, health and environmental protection, technology, IT, quality, languages,
business, and leadership as well as personality.
The individual’s qualification requirements are
ascertained situationally and as part of the annual
employee appraisal and management reviews.

is also requested to assess the success of the
training measure.
As an international company, we value a Groupwide, uniform understanding of our corporate and
management culture. In order to prepare managers for their task and support them in their role,
we offer globally standardized Voith Leadership
Programs. The program conveys the principles of
our leadership concept as well as the corresponding management knowledge and skills – in each
case tailored to the requirements of the different
management levels. The programs are mandatory
for all organizational line managers worldwide.
Customized training, development measures and
coaching, as well as accompaniment by coaches
or mentors, supplement the basic knowledge from
the mandatory programs.K
Outlook
Challenges facing us in the area of training and
education are international rollout of our programs
and central control and monitoring of the further
education measures. We also need to offer goaloriented training that reflects needs so that we
can tackle challenges down the road with qualified junior employees. As implementation of the
HR information systems pep. proceeds, we also
indend to roll out the newly developed organisation of further education measures worldwide in
the course of next fiscal year.

In order to measure the success of a training
course, the participants are asked about their
opinions, and the results are reported to the
instructors and HR. The participant’s supervisor

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 53

Responsibility for Employees

4.3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
The people who work at Voith are in various
stages of life, from more than 120 countries,
and contribute their very own individual experience. This diversity enriches our corporate culture and contributes to the success of our company. That is because innovation only arises from
the interplay of different skills, backgrounds, and
perspectives.
Values and
Compliance
Section 1.4

Parental Leave
Page 86

Voith recognizes the equality of every individual
and fosters respect for all colleagues and business partners. We do not tolerate any discrimination on the basis of gender, culture, age, belief, or
other personal characteristics. Equal treatment is
set out in the Voith Code of Conduct, the implementation of and compliance with it is monitored
at every Group level by the Compliance Committee. During the reporting period, there were no
reported cases of discrimination. V
Voith specifically aims to promote workplace
diversity and equality of opportunity throughout
the Group and, to this end, launched a Groupwide Diversity & Inclusion Program in fiscal year
2012/13. The program’s first phase was continued
in the reporting period. In order to make employees more aware of these matters, the regional
Diversity & Inclusion managers and their teams
were first trained in the reporting period. They
themselves then held training for top managers
and their executive employees. Evaluation of the
measures revealed that the feedback has been
extremely positive.
Of women in the company and especially in management positions remains an aspect of particular
importance. In fiscal year 2013/14, 8,222 women

54 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

(previous year: 9,125) worked at Voith. This corresponds to 19.7 % of the total workforce. The proportion of women in the Voith Senior Management Circle is 6.3 % (previous year: 7.6 %), with ten
countries represented. We adhere to the principle
that we fill management positions in our regions
with local staff when possible.
Family and Career
The compatibility of family and career is an important concern for us, since we want to offer our
employees an attractive working environment that
can be adapted flexibly to their given life situation.
The aspect of caring for family members is also
gaining in importance in this regard.
A wide range of different working models give our
employees maximum flexibility in organizing their
working time. We have been expanding this offering for years, for example in the shape of parttime models or combinations of home office and
in-office work.
In fiscal year 2013/14, 459 Voith employees (previous year: 412) took advantage of statutory parental
leave; more than half of them (249) were men. V
At some of our locations in Germany, we offer
childcare places at various facilities for the children of employees up to age ten. Our locations in
Sonthofen, Heidenheim, and Crailsheim each have
their own parent-child work room, which allows
parents to bring their children to work in the event
they are unable to find someone to look after them
at short notice.

Award for Outstanding Family Orientation
The compatibility of family and career has traditionally been an important concern for Voith –
and in November 2014 the company was awarded the title “Family-friendly Enterprise” for its
exceptional efforts in this area.
The Baden-Württemberg company network
familyNET acknowledged Voith’s commitment
here in the shape of concepts and initiatives
to help its employees achieve a good work-life
balance. “The issue of reconciling work and
family has a high priority for Voith’s Corporate
Board of Management. Voith has made strong
efforts over many years to help employees
find the right balance between the demands
of work and their family and has continuously
enhanced its numerous offerings,” is the verdict of familyNET.

The Voith intranet site “Family & Job” provides
online information about regional offers on the topics “Children & Job” and “Caring & Job” that help
ease the burden on employees in their private life.
Our employees in Germany can obtain information by phone and e-mail on the topic of caring.
We offer this service and help arrange childcare
in cooperation with an external consultancy firm.
Since the beginning of fiscal year 2012/13, the
measures have met with a very positive response
and there is growing demand for them.

Ilonka Nussbaumer, Senior Vice President
Corporate Human Resources, notes: “Worklife balance is not a fad for us as a familyowned company, but has always been a key
component of our HR policy ... I feel sure that
all our tools and measures ensure that our
staff are more satisfied and so identify more
with the company. And that in turn is the
best foundation for dedicated and creative
employees.”

Outlook
In fiscal year 2014/15, we will conclude the first
phase of our awareness campaign on the subject of diversity and equal opportunity, which
focused primarily on the first two management
levels. Following that, we will formulate concepts
for extending the campaign to all employees and
launch concrete activities to achieve the goals set
by the company.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 55

Responsibility for Employees

4.4 Occupational Health and Safety
Health and workplace safety have always had top
priority at Voith. We seek to create workplaces and
processes to avoid accidents and work-related
illnesses as far as possible. We have defined our
understanding of workplace safety in seven guiding principles. K
Occupational Health and Safety Enshrined
in Corporate Goals
Provisions on occupational health and safety
have been firmly established in the Group’s objectives since 2009. The Corporate Safety and
Health Management department, which reports
to the central Corporate Sustainability function, is
responsible for the further development of standards and measures. The Safety Steering Team,
comprising members from all Voith Group Divisions and regions, meets every six months. There
is also regular dialog at a wide range of different
levels within the Divisions.
The Group Directive on safety defines mandatory minimum requirements and standards for the
Group. A further seven Safety Group Directives

Voith’s guiding principles on workplace safety
•
•

•

•

•
•

•

All accidents can be prevented.
Senior executives are responsible for the
prevention of accidents.
Working safely is a requirement in the
workplace.
The senior executives must involve all
employees.
All work must be safe.
Management will monitor occupational
safety through audits.
All employees will receive occupational
health and safety training.

56 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

(SGDs) came into force in the reporting period.
They define safety standards that apply throughout the Group on the following matters:
• Responsible persons, tasked persons
• Investigation of incidents
• Working with cranes
• Working with fork-lift trucks and power-operated
industrial trucks
• Working with angle grinders
• Working with scaffolding/ladders
• Ergonomics
The new standards means that a total of 16 SGDs
are now in force; a further 12 are already being
planned.
As regards occupational health and safety, Voith
pursues a collaborative approach in which many
decisions are made in consultation with the employee representatives. Company agreements
on work safety and health and on preventing addiction complement the regulations in the Group
Directive on industrial safety.
All larger locations have a Safety Committee which
meets regularly and consists of management and
worker representatives. It develops the annual
occupational safety program and translates it into
monthly measures.
We record and manage the relevant information
via our management system in accordance with
international standards, such as OHSAS 18001,
according to which many of our sites are certified. The core elements of the system include
the documentation of all safety-related incidents,
a special internal auditing system, and annual
occupational safety programs. In addition, potential improvements to workplace safety at selected
locations are determined using the Corporate
Safety Audit system.

4.4.1 Occupational Safety –
A Matter for Everyone
All employees are integrated in the occupational
safety program. Information and targets are
cascaded from the Board of Management, to
the respective managers and right down to the
employee level.
Managers who are responsible for staff have a
particular duty in this respect. They are obligated
to train their staff and actively communicate current developments. Employees must be given
documented instruction at least once a year. We
support this process with centrally defined training
materials.
Production staff are also sensitized to the issue
of occupational safety every day or month by
means of what are termed “flashes.” With these
short training sessions, we aim to keep the issue
of safety to the fore in their daily work outside the
annual instruction we provide.
In the reporting period, just about all executives
from the operational side of business and 75 % of
executives from administration underwent training on the subject of work safety. We also involve
our service providers in our activities through the
workplace safety directive “Coordination of visitors
and contractors”.
Documenting, Analyzing and
Avoiding Accidents
At Voith, all accidents are immediately recorded,
reported to the direct supervisor and published in
the intranet. The Corporate Board of Management
must be informed of serious incidents directly
within 24 hours. Since fiscal year 2012/13, we have
also had a strict policy of communicating nonreportable incidents, accidents, and near misses.

Each accident is reviewed and documented by an
investigation team that consists of those involved,
supervisors, and safety experts. The definitions
of accidents are described in detail in the Group
manual and are comparable internationally with
other companies.
We keep track of matters relating to occupational
safety every month by means of accident analyses, audits and other measures. We take action
immediately if serious accidents occur or there
is an increase in certain types of accidents. The
first measure we take is to prepare global flash
information so as to notify all affected employees
promptly.
We also implement the standards of our European
plants at our Asian locations. As part of that,
we have established a network of experts and
translated the guidelines and standards into the
respective local language. This network regularly
shares experience and knowledge locally and so
ensures that know-how is transferred faster within
the locations.
Continuous Improvement
Since this management system was implemented
at all production sites in 2009, we have been able
to keep on making improvements as regards
occupational safety. For example, the frequency
rate – the number of accidents per 1 million working hours –, which is measured in compliance with
the international standard, has constantly fallen.
We achieved our target in fiscal year 2013/14 with
a frequency rate of 2.0 (previous year: 2.3). That
corresponds to 155 reportable accidents. There
were no fatalities as a result of occupational accidents in the reporting period.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 57

Responsibility for Employees

Frequency Rate

Severity Rate

Specific figure in accidents
per 1 million working hours

Specific figure in hours lost
per 1 million working hours
445.9

2.8
Target value
for 2017/18

2.3

2.0
2.0

Absolute figures

425.1

381.2

Target value
for 2017/18

350.0

Absolute figures
208

33,400

33,363
29,726

181
155

2011/12

2012/13

2013/14

We did not achieve our target for the number of
hours lost in the reporting period. However, we are
also making good progress in this regard and have
been able to improve constantly in the past years.
With 381 hours lost per 1,000,000 hours worked,
the severity rate in fiscal year 2013/14 was just
above our target of 350.
We achieved further milestones in relation to occupational safety in the reporting period. We have
now established “lockout/tagout”, a standardized
procedure for safe energy activation in our production operations – an important component in
ensuring safe use of our production facilities.

58 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

2011/12

2012/13

2013/14

We intend to involve employees and managers in
our activities to an even greater extent by means
of standardized tools and audits, as well as more
detailed information. We aim to use our IT-aided
control tool on the subjects of health, safety
and the environment and resource efficiency to
enhance the transparency of what we do and
derive even more pinpointed measures. The implementation process began in fiscal year 2013/14
and is expected to be completed in 2017.

4.4.2 Occupational Health
Voith systematically promotes its employees’
health, in particular by means of prevention. Our
employees should be able to preserve their capacity to work and retire healthy at the end of their
professional lives. As part of that, we focus on four
fields of activity, in which we made the following
progress in the reporting period:
•

•

Safe and age-appropriate working
environment
As part of an ergonomics campaign, we contacted office staff in particular, provided them
with information on the subject of ergonomics
during inspections, and advised them on-site on
workplace design and organization. The focus
in our production operations was on providing
information, above all on handling heavy components and loads.
Health promotion and prevention of illness
In this field of activity, the locations conduct
actions on their own initiative as part of the
respective annual programs. The focus in the
reporting period was on colorectal cancer
screening and seminars to help people stop
smoking, for example. In addition, information
on the following topics was published centrally:
alcohol, flu, vaccinations, smoking, and stress.

•

Support in case of illness and stress
Thanks to our cooperation with an external service provider, employees obtain information and
support relating to the care of family members
and childcare.

Family and Career
Section 4.3

In the reporting period, we also began establishing
a standardized reintegration management system.
Outlook
In the area of occupational safety, we intend to
consolidate our leading position and also work
systematically in the coming years to further
reduce the frequency and severity rates.
In the area of occupational health, we will increasingly face the issue of demographic change and –
at our European locations – an aging workforce.
We are working on measures to tackle that. We
also aim to standardize our health management
in Germany and also help know-how and bestpractice solutions be shared by means of stronger
international networking.

We began to promote regular specialist exchange and to support our focal topics by setting up a cross-site network of staff doctors last
year. After establishing the network in Germany,
we now also intend to put regional networks in
place in North and South America and Asia.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 59

Asia now generates around 30 percent of the global gross domestic
product, while 60 percent of the world’s population live in the region –
many countries there are now counting to the most important markets in
the world. That is especially true of China, where Voith has had its own
local production sites for more than 20 years. Our commercial success
goes hand in hand with social engagement.

05

	Responsibility for
Society
For a family-owned company like Voith, active social
engagement is of particular importance. Wherever we
are located around the world, we want to contribute
to the positive development of society and support
local institutions. Our activities focus on the areas of
sports, education, social affairs, and culture.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 61

Responsibility for Society

5.1 Management Approach
As a company, we want to contribute to the
promotion of the common good. Active social
engagement is therefore a firm part of our understanding of sustainability.

Engagement with
Tradition
Section 5.2

The nature and scope of our commitment have
been documented since 2008 in the Group
Directive “Donations and Sponsoring”. It defines
the focal areas of our engagement: Sports, education, social affairs, and culture. This commitment
can consist of direct funding or material help and
work (in-kind contributions). The directive governs
the financial framework of our commitment. The
budget used to be aligned to earnings before
taxes (EBT) of the previous year. The maximum
limit was one percent of EBT and the minimum
limit two-thirds of the volume of funding in the previous year. We know from past years that these
ratios could not always be adhered to. That is why
we are now revising the directive, which will be
available in an updated version by the end of fiscal
year 2014/15. The aim is to ensure our continuous
commitment, even at times when our company’s
development is volatile.
In particular, we are addressing the issue of transparency in our donation and sponsoring policy
in revising the Group Directive. Our materiality
analysis revealed that these topics are important
for many of our stakeholders.
Organization of our Engagement
The Corporate Office coordinates Voith’s social
engagement activities and reports directly to the
President and CEO. Corporate Communications
controls our sponsoring activities. With sponsoring, we have goals – mainly communicationrelated – besides funding: to receive an agreed
quid pro quo.

62 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Individual Group Divisions can launch and run their
own aid and sponsorship projects, providing they
comply with the Group Directive. The Corporate
Office provides information on the use of funds
throughout the Voith Group to the Corporate
Board of Management once a year.
The individual activities as part of our social
engagement are managed by two institutions:
• Voith GmbH, Heidenheim,
• F undação Voith, Brazil – Voith has helped social
projects in Brazil since 2004 through this foundation, pooling the funds from the local companies.
In addition, the Hanns-Voith-Foundation regularly
funds a large number of local and supraregional
initiatives and provides financial support for various projects with annual donations.V
Project Selection Based on Clear Criteria
There are set criteria Group-wide for selecting the
individual projects: activities funded by us and
the organizations carrying them out must be recognized as being charitable and work in regions
where Voith also operates. The funded projects
must achieve a broad-based effect, promote
the community, or increase the attractiveness of
the region for the local population. Irrespective
of these rules, Voith provides help in the form of
donations or in-kind contributions in humanitarian
emergencies that demand urgent action.
In our Code of Conduct, we undertake to be transparent and comply with the law. Donations to political parties require the approval of the Corporate
Board of Management or the Shareholders’
Committee.

5.2 Projects and Activities
Despite our weaker business performance in fiscal
year 2013/14, we kept up our social engagement.
Voith and Fundação Voith spent a total of around
€ 1.92 million on social engagement in fiscal year
2013/14 (previous year: € 1.38 million). Fundação Voith contributed € 29,000. Of this, we gave
away € 0.57 million in the form of donations, while
€ 1.35 million was used for sponsoring measures.
The largest proportion was spent on sports (61 %),
followed by education (21 %), social projects (9 %),
and cultural projects (9 %). No contributions were
made to parties or political organizations in the
reporting period.
5.2.1 Engagement for Education
A good education and training forms the basis for
optimal development opportunities in life. That
is why we support kindergartens, schools, and
universities around the world – continuing the
tradition of Dr. Hanns Voith, who institutionalized
Voith’s social engagement.

Total funding in 2013/14 € 1.92 million
by topic
Culture
9%

Social Affairs
9%

Education
21 %

Sports
61 %

In Germany, we have supported the “Academy of
the Future” in Heidenheim as part of our talent promotion program for many years. As in the previous
year, we donated € 20,000 to the European Business School in Oestrich-Winkel and € 13,000 to
the German Institute for Standardization. We also
provided the Hydraulics Competence Center of
Ulm University of Applied Sciences with funding of
€ 15,000 and the student initiative of Ulm University of Applied Sciences “E-Motion Racing Team”,
which is advancing the development of electric
drives, with funding of € 10,000.

Engagement with Tradition – The Hanns-Voith-Foundation
Under the slogan “Create Opportunities,
Shape the Future”, the Hanns-Voith-Foundation has been dedicated to improving the
future chances of young people for more than
60 years. Founded in 1953 to mark the 40th
anniversary of service of the former director,
Hanns Voith, the organization is active in the
fields of education, culture, the countryside
and welfare, science and research, promoting
international understanding, and development
aid. In 2014, the Hanns-Voith-Foundation

disbursed around € 570,000 to regional and
supraregional projects. They include institutions and projects such as the Independent
Waldorf School in Heidenheim, the “Förderverein Eiszeitkunst” (Friends of Ice Age Art
association), the project “Olympics 2016” of
the fencing section of Heidenheim Sports
Federation, Heidenheim Art Museum or the
town of Heidenheim’s primary school project
to promote physical exercise.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 63

Responsibility for Society

Voith has also supported the German-wide education initiative business@school of The Boston
Consulting Group (BCG) for eleven years now. This
gives upper-grade high school students a yearlong practical grounding in business topics. 15
Voith employees supported the initiative voluntarily
in fiscal year 2013/14 and ensured the necessary
link to the real world with their knowledge and
experience. They supervised a total of around 50
students from three Heidenheim high schools in
ten groups.
Voith has endowed professorships at several
German universities, such as the one at Stuttgart
University in cooperation with EnBW BadenWürttemberg AG.
Our cooperation with schools and universities
has also proven its worth in Europe, the US, India,
China, and Brazil. Among other things, we support the “Adopt-a-School” program in the US, and
the cooperation between the Escola Estadual
Conjunto Habitacional Voith and the Friedrich-vonVoith School in São Paulo, Brazil.
A particular focus of our activities is at our headquarters in Heidenheim. Since 1972, Voith has
accompanied up to 50 young people with learning
difficulties or who left school early in a training program every year; 30 young persons were admitted
to the program in the reporting period. After completing the program, around 80 % of them found
a regular apprenticeship place. We also provided
€ 20,000 to “Places of Learning by the Brenz”, a
project that aims to give people a first-hand experience of renaturation by the River Brenz.
5.2.2 Engagement for Sports
Voith sponsors professional and amateur sports
and supports several sports clubs and events
around the world. We spent € 1,169,000 on this
in the reporting period. At its headquarters, Voith

64 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Bidding for a Good Cause
•

•

Around 500 Voith employees at the Shanghai
location took part in a charity event in November 2014. The occasion was a special anniversary: Voith launched its own local production
sites in China in the field of hydropower twenty
years ago.
The auctioned items were donated by the location’s management team. The proceeds –
around €3,000 – will benefit a local primary
school in which more than 1,000 pupils from
migrant families are taught. A special classroom for indoor activities, such as table tennis
and other sports, will soon be built there.

supports the professional soccer club “1. FC
Heidenheim 1864 e.V.”, by, among other things,
sponsoring the naming rights for the Voith Arena
and as the principal sponsor on its shirts and
perimeter boards. We also support the fencing
center “Heidenheimer Sportbund 1846 e.V.” (HSB)
and the local baseball team. We believe support
for local initiatives to be an investment in the quality of the region – one that benefits citizens and so
our employees.
In Brazil, we provided funding of just under
€ 5,000 in the reporting period in cooperation
with the Orsa Foundation to help integration of
young people with physical and mental disabilities
through sports.
5.2.3 Engagement for Social Affairs
Our wish is to improve the living conditions of
people around the world and to promote contact among cultures. We therefore support projects worldwide, such as the “Children's Future
Organization” (CFO) in Nepal (see the box).

5.2.4 Engagement for Culture
We want to give as many people as possible access
to cultural life. During the reporting period, we provided financial support for various institutions in

Heidenheim, including the Sculptors Symposium,
the Heidenheim Art Museum, and the Opera
Festival. We also support jazz in Heidenheim and
fund various film projects.

Hand-in-hand to Create Better Opportunities
Just as Voith the company displays social commitment, many of its employees
support people, who need their help, in their spare time.
For five years now, Herwig Jantschik and
his wife, for example, have supported a children’s village run by the “Children’s Future
Organization” (CFO) in Nepal, which is dedicated to improve their chances in life and
educational opportunities. Jantschik, who
works as a social advisor at the Corporate
Occupational Safety and Health Management
department in Heidenheim, happened to mention what he did to his colleagues – and set an
avalanche of help in motion. From equipment
that is no longer needed from the joinery at
Voith’s training workshop in Heidenheim to
cash donations from colleagues who participated in fund-raising activities in the canteen – initiated by a group of Voith apprentices
who gave the project vigorous support. Many
other Voith employees, Voith Turbo Crailsheim,
Gastro Voith and the Hanns-Voith-Foundation
also contribute to the project.
As a result, the CFO in Nepal has now collected
more than three-quarters of the construction
costs and work is to start soon. Several Voith
trainees and their instructors also want to fly
to Nepal to set up the equipment from the
joinery and teach the youngsters how to operate the machines. Once the center is finished,
the youngsters are to be trained in carpentry,
as well as metalworking and tailoring. You

Workshop with Voith trainees for the training
workshop in Nepal

can find more information on the project’s
activities and current status in the Internet at
www.cfo-kinderdorf-nepal.de.
At the end of April 2015, Nepal was hit by
a serious earthquake and several aftershocks. The houses in the children’s village
survived unscathed. Under the slogan “Voith
Employees for Nepal”, a project team from
Voith organized spontaneous aid for the
Dhading district, where the village is located.
In addition to numerous fund-raising activities, collections for in-kind donations, such as
blankets, were also initiated. Voith locations
worldwide joined in the campaign.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 65

66 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Miscellaneous
Facts and Figures
Sustainable Management

68

Responsibility for the Environment

70

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains

81

Responsibility for Employees

82

Responsibility for Society

91

Delimination of the Significant Topics

92

Goals and Goal Achivement

93

GRI-Index

100

Remarks:
The consolidation framework described in “About this Report” (see inside front cover) applies unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Some decimal points have been rounded up or down. Data that was not available at the time of publication is indicated with “n.a”.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 67

Miscellaneous

Sustainable Management
Key Economic Figures
in € million

2013/14

Sales

2012/13*

2011/12

5,345

5,728

5,724

Operational result before non-recurring items

220

310

341

Income before taxes

119

98

177

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

*The previous year’s data has been adjusted (see the Annual Report 2014, page 132).

Sales Markets
in %
Germany

20

20

21

Europe excluding Germany

28

27

26

America

29

27

27

Asia

20

23

24

3

3

2

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Germany

40

36

44

Europe excluding Germany

22

22

21

America

28

28

26

Asia

10

14

9

0

0

0

99

77

78

Other

Procurement Markets (regional distribution of purchasing volume)
in %

Other
Number
Different countries of origin for suppliers
Reference: Voith Paper, Voith Hydro and Voith Turbo

Business Area Portraits in Fiscal Year 2013/14
in € million
Sales
Profit from operations

68 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Voith Hydro

Voith Industrial Services

Voith Paper

Voith Turbo

1,313

1,178

1,430

1,409

101

20

9

111

Certifications at Voith Locations
Number

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

ISO 14001

69

69

69

ISO 9001

84

83

82

OHSAS 18001

71

69

67

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Compliance
in %
Employees trained in compliance

100

100

100

Managers trained in compliance

100

100

100

Sessions

Type

631

One day

Compliance Training Sessions in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number
Management from the upper four levels, new managers
at the Voith Academy, Sales, Sourcing
Decentralized training by compliance officer

1,381

1.5 h

Training by supervisor

2,709

0.5 h

Persons trained

Sessions

Type

588

27

One day

52

2

One day

50

1

Half day

43

2

Two day

Training on Compliance in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number
Management, Sales, Sourcing
Worldwide
Asia
Voith Academy
Germany/Heidenheim
Compliance officers
Germany/Heidenheim
No training for the Supervisory Board was held this fiscal year.

Expenditures for Employees
in € million

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Wages and salaries

1,744

1,753

1,701

Social security contributions, retirement pensions,
and assistance

379.8

401.7

394.9

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 69

Miscellaneous

Responsibility for the Environment
Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Direct Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1)*
Energy used

Direct energy consumption of the Voith vehicle fleet

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

MWh

60,331

58,394

Company cars

%

82

81

Logistics

%

18

19

-

-

MWh

189,481

197,041

Natural gas

%

81

79

Heating oil

%

5

7

Diesel

%

6

6

LPG

%

8

7

Biomass/biogenic energy sources

%

<1

<1

Other renewable energy sources and
captive generation of renewable energy

%

0

0

Other

%

0

<1

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

MWh

374,110

406,378

Electricity

%

80

77

Long-distance heating

%

19

21

Steam

%

1

1

Volatile greenhouse gas emissions

Direct energy consumption in production

Indirect Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2)
Energy used

Indirect energy consumption (purchased + captive,
only if the fuels are not included above)

Energy sold

MWh

299

283

Electricity

%

100

100

Heat energy

%

0

0

Steam

%

0

0

n.a. = not available. We plan to collect data on volatile greenhouse gas emissions as of fiscal year 2015/16.
Use of energy (total, renewable, non-renewable); total biomass + renewable energy sources;
Total use of energy for our own fleet from non-renewable energy sources was 2,246,118 GJ.
Transport-related greenhouse gas emissions were converted using the conversion factors for
personal transport available in the ProBas database of the German Environmental Agency.
Greenhouse gas emissions for the transport of goods include greenhouse gas emissions based
on our stock receipts and issues data and the associated transports. Transport-related
greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the emission factors available in the ProBas
database of the German Environmental Agency.
*Excluding volatile greenhouse gas emissions.

70 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

58,261

t CO 2e

17,110

16,575

16,544

81

%

82

82

82

19

%

18

18

18

-

t CO 2e

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

200,269

t CO 2e

40,409

42,406

43,484

77

%

77

75

72

9

%

7

9

11

7

%

7

8

9

8

%

9

8

8

<1

%

<1

<1

<1

0

%

0

0

0

0

%

0

<1

0

2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

404,010

t CO 2e

136,434

143,674

140,419

78

%

92

91

90

20

%

8

9

10

2

%

<1

<1

<1

235

t CO 2e

145

137

114

100

%

100

100

100

0

%

0

0

0

0

%

0

0

0

Greenhouse gas emissions

Scope Overview
Scope 1

Scope 2

· 	Direct energy consumption in production
· Production of renewable energy

·	Indirect energy consumption in production
(electricity, long-distance heating, steam)

· 	Direct energy consumption of
Voith vehicles
· 	Volatile greenhouse gas emissions

· Energy sold

Production-related energy

A

Scope 3
·	Business travel
(non-company means of transport)
· Logistics
· Travel by employees to work
·	Greenhouse gas emissions through the
use of sold products and services
·	Greenhouse gas emissions through water
consumption
·	Greenhouse gas emissions through
waste disposal

Is not recorded at present

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 71

Miscellaneous

Indirect Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3)*
Energy used
Unit

2013/14

2012/13

MWh

118,468

122,725

Rail

%

0

0

Car (not belonging to the Voith fleet, e.g. hired cars)

%

4

4

Flight (short-distance)

%

18

17

Business travel

Flight (long-distance)

%

78

79

MWh

99,750

120,647

Rail

%

<1

<1

Truck

%

10

7

Ship

%

9

7

Flight

%

81

85

Logistics (upstream and downstream)

*Excluding travel by employees; greenhouse gas emissions through the use of sold products and services;
greenhouse gas emissions through water consumption; greenhouse gas emissions through waste disposal.
Comment: Only the stated uses of energy and greenhouse gas emissions can be recorded up to now with
reference to Scope 3. We are working to include other significant uses of energy and sources of emissions
in our calculations.

Total Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Energy used
Unit

2013/14

2012/13

Production-related energy consumption

MWh

563,591

603,419

Total for business travel

MWh

167,682

170,237

Scope 1

%

29

28

Scope 3

%

71

72

MWh

110,867

131,529

%

10

8

Total for logistics
Scope 1
Scope 3

%

90

92

MWh

842,140

905,185

Scope 1

%

30

28

Scope 2

%

44

45

Scope 3

%

26

27

Energy consumption for Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3

Specific Production-Related Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
Energy used

Specific Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(Scope 1 and 2)

72 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

in MWh/€ million sales

105.4

105.3

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

137,719

t CO 2e

32,527

33,806

37,925

0

%

0

0

0

4

%

4

4

4

15

%

18

17

15

81

%

78

79

81

117,506

t CO 2e

27,398

32,990

32,251

<1

%

<1

<1

<1

9

%

11

8

10

10

%

9

8

10

81

%

79

84

80

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

604,279

t CO 2e

176,843

186,080

183,903

184,825

t CO 2e

46,627

47,435

51,449

25

%

30

29

26

75

%

70

71

74

128,660

t CO 2e

30,408

35,937

35,271

9

%

10

8

9

91

%

90

92

91

917,765

t CO 2e

253,878

269,451

270,623

28

%

23

22

22

44

%

54

53

52

28

%

24

25

26

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

105.6

in t CO 2e /€ million sales

33

32

32

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 73

Miscellaneous

Production-Related Energy Consumption/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by Region
Energy used
Unit

2013/14

2012/13

MWh

563,591

603,419

Germany

%

37

40

Europe excluding Germany

%

16

16

America

%

34

32

Asia

%

13

12

Other

%

<1

<1

Total energy consumption/greenhouse gas emissions

Reduction of Energy Consumption as a Direct Consequence of Conservation and Efficiency Drives
Energy used
Unit

2013/14

2012/13

MWh

12,459

5,098

in t

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total materials/raw materials used

131,265

172,989

215,383

Raw material

34

32

25

Semifinished products

52

55

64

Packaging

10

9

8

Total

Material consumption
Materials Used by Weight

in %

4

4

3

Total renewable materials

Auxiliaries

10

8

7

Total non-renewable materials

90

92

93

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Share of Secondary Raw Materials in Total Materials Used
in %
Raw material

45

41

46

Semifinished products

46

42

45

Packaging

74

74

75

Auxiliaries

55

46

51

Total

49

44

48

74 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

t CO 2e

176,843

186,080

183,903

42

%

26

28

32

14

%

10

10

8

32

%

36

35

36

604,279

11

%

27

26

24

<1

%

<1

<1

<1

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

2,379

1,679

4,520

Greenhouse gas emissions
2011/12

Unit

7,100

t CO 2e

Water consumption
Water Consumption by Region
in %
Germany

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

51

43

51

Europe excluding Germany

13

15

11

America

20

23

20

Asia

16

19

18

Other

<1

<1

<1

1,462,902

1,351,901

1,682,703

in m³

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Surface water

119,402

120,767

102,666

Groundwater

757,724

587,829

837,320

15,193

6,943

10,606

in m³

Total

Water Consumption by Source

Rainwater
Wastewater from other companies

0

0

0

585,777

643,305

742,717

1,478,095

1,358,844

1,693,309

in m³

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total

1,462,902

1,351,901

1,682,703

From municipal water utility

Total

Freshwater Consumption

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 75

Miscellaneous

Specific Freshwater Consumption
in m³/€ thousand sales

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

0.27

0.24

0.29

in m³

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total

134

108

216

<1

<1

<1

in m³

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total

1,261,810

1,198,512

1,461,091

Total

Percentage and Total Volume of Reused Water

As a % of total water withdrawn

Wastewater
Wastewater Discharge

Because of evaporation, the total wastewater discharged differs from water consumption.

Treated and Untreated Wastewater by Method of Discharge
in m³

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total treated wastewater

121,715

156,035

180,568

Discharged into the public sewage system (in %)

63

54

63

Discharged into surface water (in %)

33

44

34

Discharged into groundwater (in %)

4

2

3

Reused at another company (in %)

Total untreated waste water

0

0

0

1,140,095

1,042,476

1,280,523

Discharged into the public sewage system (in %)

53

56

50

Discharged into surface water (in %)

28

33

34

Discharged into groundwater (in %)

19

11

16

Reused at another company (in %)

<1

<1

<1

Wastewater Quality
in t

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Biological oxygen demand (BOD)

14

9

11

Chemical oxygen demand (COD)

48

32

45

Total suspended matter content

9

11

13

Heavy metals

<1

<1

<1

Nitrogen

<1

<1

2

Phosphorus

<1

<1

<1

The emissions in wastewater are based on the volume of wastewater streams from Voith
locations subject to monitoring and the respective average of the measured concentrations.

76 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Significant* Direct Wastewater Discharge in 2013/14
Location

Destination

Protection status

Other information

Heidenheim

Brenz River

Water protection area acc.
to WRRL, WHG (§§ 50–53),
Zone III/IIIA (Zone II/IIA TB
Mergelstetten, not yet final)

42 % of wastewater is returned to the natural water cycle. The water was
previously used for cooling purposes. The discharged water is subject to
strict controls, as the location is in a water protection zone.

Högsjö (Sweden)

Lake Högsjö

-

95 % of wastewater is returned to the natural water cycle. The water was
previously used for cooling purposes.

Ibarra (Spain)

Río Oria

-

50 % of wastewater is returned to the natural water cycle.

Krefeld (Germany)

Green spaces

-

8 % of well water is used for watering green spaces.

Noida (India)

Yamuna River

-

100 % of wastewater is returned to the natural water cycle.

São Paulo (Brazil)

Perus River

Permanent Protection Area
(APP), national law (Brazil)

95 % of wastewater is returned to the water cycle. We have purification
equipment locally with which the water is treated for discharge. The
location is adjacent to a water protection zone.

Wimpassing (Austria)

Schwarza River

-

46 % of cooling water is returned to the Schwarza.

*“Significant” is considered to be wastewater discharged to surface water
that exceeds 5 % of the total water volume of the observed unit.
The size and/or volume of the discharge locations cannot be determined.

Waste
Waste by Region
in %
Germany
Europe excluding Germany
America

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

40

43

46

9

8

9

38

35

32

Asia

13

13

13

Other

<1

<1

<1

49,490

49,574

51,525

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

9.26

8.65

9.00

in t

Total

Specific Waste Weight
in t/€ million sales
Specific waste weight

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 77

Miscellaneous

Reclaimed and Removed Waste by Method
in t
Reclaimed waste
Reused
Recycled
Composted
Recovered
Other reclamation
Removed waste
Incinerated
Dumped at an external site*

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

30,190

32,163

32,838

311

350

818

23,749

25,633

25,499

270

163

174

4,348

4,886

5,153

1,512

1,131

1,195

19,300

17,411

18,687

3,783

3,511

5,136

15,518

13,900

13,551

Dumped at a company site

0

0

0

Other removal

0

0

0

49,490

49,574

51,525

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total
*Foundry sand waste from the foundry in São Paulo; waste disposal in the US.

Hazardous and Non-hazardous Waste
in t
Hazardous waste

10,054

9,813

9,674

Non-hazardous waste

39,436

39,761

41,851

Total

49,490

49,574

51,525

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Imported, Transported and Exported Hazardous Waste
in t
Total weight of transported hazardous waste

10,054

9,814

9,674

Total weight of imported hazardous waste

0

0

0

Total weight of exported hazardous waste

0

0

0

Total weight of hazardous waste transported nationally and
internationally between Voith locations

0

0

0

Share of hazardous waste transported across borders (in %)

0

0

0

78 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Air Pollutants
Production-Related Air Pollutants
in t

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)*

<1

<1

<1

Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)*

<1

<1

<1

0

0

0

Methyl bromide* (CH3 Br)

Halon*

n.s.

n.s.

<1

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)

101

104

n.a.

101

104

n.a.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs)

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs)

n.s.

n.s.

n.s.

Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)

n.s.

n.s.

n.s.

11

8

9

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

n.s.

n.s.

n.s.

Dust emissions
Respirable fraction
Heavy metals
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

n.s.

n.s.

n.s.

Sulfur oxides (SOx)

n.s.

n.s.

n.s.

0

0

n.a.

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC)*

<1

<1

<1

Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)*

<1

<1

<1

Halon*

<1

<1

<1

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)
n.s. = not significant.
n.a. = not available.

From Production-Related Energy Consumption
in t

Methyl bromide* (CH3 Br)

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)

448

462

481

30

31

32

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs)

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs)

<1

<1

<1

Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)

20

20

20

Dust emissions

37

38

38

Respirable fraction
Heavy metals

14

14

14

<1

<1

<1

Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

409

422

419

Sulfur oxides (SOx)

912

930

906

<1

<1

<1

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)
*Ozone-depleting substances in t CFC11 equiv.
n.a. = not available.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 79

Miscellaneous

Air Pollutants from Business Travel
in t

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC)*

<1

<1

<1

Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)*

<1

<1

<1

0

0

0

Methyl bromide* (CH3 Br)

Halon*

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)

211

210

179

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs)
Persistent organic pollutants (POPs)

50

49

42

<1

<1

<1

Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)

2

2

2

Dust emissions

6

6

5

Respirable fraction
Heavy metals
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

5

5

5

<1

<1

<1

144

152

148

Sulfur oxides (SOx)

89

89

76

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)

<1

<1

<1

*Ozone-depleting substances in t CFC11 equiv.
n.a. = not available.

Air Pollutants from Transport of Goods
in t

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC)*

<1

<1

<1

Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)*

<1

<1

<1

0

0

0

Methyl bromide*

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)

131

132

151

30

31

35

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs)

<1

<1

<1

Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)

<1

<1

<1

Halon*

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs)

Dust emissions
Respirable fraction
Heavy metals
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)

5

6

6

5

5

6

<1

<1

<1

217

244

258

Sulfur oxides (SOx)

99

99

119

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)

<1

<1

<1

*Ozone-depleting substances in t CFC11 equiv.
n.a. = not available.
n.s. = not significant.

80 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains
Patents
Number of new patents filed

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

24

30

19

1

0

0

Voith Paper

97

114

198

Voith Turbo

97

83

67

219

227

284

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Voith Hydro
Voith Industrial Services

Total

Active Suppliers
Number

Total

Approx. 39,500

Approx. 40,500*

More than 30,000

Regional distribution in %
Germany

41.9

44.7

n.r.

Europe excluding Germany

18.7

17.2

n.r.

America

27.3

27.2

n.r.

Asia

10.9

9.7

n.r.

1.2

1.2

n.r.

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

1,512

n.r.

n.r.

Other
n.r. = not recorded.
*Updated figure, since the data for suppliers of Voith Paper FRS and suppliers of
some companies of Voith Industrial Services was not systematically recorded
when the last Sustainability Report was published.

Suppliers who have filled out a self-assessment
Number
Initial self-assessment
n.r. = not recorded.

Sustainability at existing suppliers
in %

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Supplier self-assessment ratio
(share of the purchasing volume obtained from suppliers
for whom there is a valid self-assessment)

27.8

3.8

4.5

Sustainability ratio (out of 100) since fiscal year 2012/13

75.0

80.0

n.r.

Volume of invoices with suppliers for whom an up-to-date,
approved supplier evaluation was available

61.0

76.0

72.0

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Suppliers who were evaluated

5,129

5,861

4,526

Evaluations (individual processes)

6,680

8,279

7,235

n.r. = not recorded.

Evaluations at existing suppliers
Number

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 81

Miscellaneous

Responsibility for Employees
Consolidation Scope
Consolidation Scope for Employee Numbers
Number
Employees Group-wide in FTE
Employees Group-wide as a headcount*
Employees included in data analysis

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

39,302

43,134

42,327

41,651

47,111

46,469

41,651

42,482

41,021

*Unlike in the Annual Report, employee figures in the Sustainability Report are represented
by headcount, rather than by FTE (full time equivalents).

Workforce Structure
Employees by Age Group and Gender* in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number

Voith Group

Germany

Europe excluding
Germany

America

Asia

Other

Women

8,222

3,032

1,661

2,512

985

32

33,429

13,499

5,844

9,463

4,528

95

8,337

2,638

1,185

2,889

1,617

8

Men
< 30 years
30–50 years

21,841

8,580

3,844

6,008

3,322

87

> 50 years

11,473

5,313

2,476

3,078

574

32

Total

41,651

16,531

7,505

11,975

5,513

127

*Unlike in the Annual Report, employee figures in the Sustainability Report are represented
by headcount, rather than by FTE (full time equivalents).

Full-Time and Part-Time Employees by Age and Gender in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number

Voith Group

Germany

Europe excluding
Germany

America

Asia

Other

Full-time

37,415

13,838

6,763

11,523

5,236

55

Women
Men
< 30 years

6,352

1,687

1,287

2,433

944

1

31,063

12,151

5,476

9,090

4,292

54

7,530

2,194

1,081

2,712

1,540

3

30–50 years

19,708

7,208

3,460

5,799

3,199

42

> 50 years

10,177

4,436

2,222

3,012

497

10

Part-time

4,236

2,693

742

452

277

72

Women

1,870

1,345

374

79

41

31

Men

2,366

1,348

368

373

236

41

807

444

104

177

77

5

30–50 years

2,133

1,372

384

209

123

45

> 50 years

1,296

877

254

66

77

22

< 30 years

82 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Employees with Temporary and Permanent Employment Contracts by Gender in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number

Voith Group

Germany

Europe excluding
Germany

America

Asia

Other

36,001

14,802

6,641

11,761

2,677

120

Permanent employment
contract
Women
Men
Temporary employment
contract

6,867

2,602

1,410

2,462

361

32

29,134

12,200

5,231

9,299

2,316

88

5,650

1,729

864

214

2,836

7

Women

1,355

430

251

50

624

0

Men

4,295

1,299

613

164

2,212

7

Collective bargaining agreements
in %
Number of employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements
In Germany

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

72

74

n.r.

86

84

n.r.

n.r. = not recorded.

Workforce Fluctuation
Employees Who Left the Company by Whose Initiative in Fiscal Year 2013/14
in %

Mechanical and
plant engineering

Service business

Total

Total

12.0

27.1

20.2

At the employee’s initiative

3.5

12.1

8.2

At the employer’s initiative

6.2

14.5

10.7

Other

2.3

0.6

1.3

This data was not recorded in the sustainability database.
It therefore covers 40,738 rather than 41,651 employees.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 83

Miscellaneous

Newly Employed Employees Who Left Voith within Twelve Months
by Gender, Age Group, and Region in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number

Voith Group

Germany

Europe excluding
Germany

America

Asia

Other

447

378

23

17

29

0

Voith Group
Women

92

75

9

2

6

0

355

303

14

15

23

0

< 30 years

227

183

17

6

21

0

30–50 years

173

151

6

8

8

0

Men

> 50 years

47

44

0

3

0

0

447

378

23

17

29

0

85

45

18

8

14

0

Women

21

9

6

1

5

0

Men

64

36

12

7

9

0

< 30 years

49

20

12

3

14

0

30–50 years

28

18

6

4

0

0

Total
Mechanical and plant
engineering

> 50 years

Total
Service business
Women
Men

8

7

0

1

0

0

85

45

18

8

14

0

362

333

5

9

15

0

71

66

3

1

1

0

291

267

2

8

14

0

< 30 years

178

163

5

3

7

0

30–50 years

145

133

0

4

8

0

39

37

0

2

0

0

362

333

5

9

15

0

> 50 years

Total

Figures from HR Cockpit. Since all 41,651 employees were not included in the
system until the end of the fiscal year and we began the fiscal year with around
33,000 employees, not all personnel movements were recorded in full.

84 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014



Average Employment Length in Mechanical and Plant Engineering and
in Service Business by Region
in years

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Total
9.06

8.15

9.99

Germany

Voith Group

11.26

9.80

13.45

Europe excluding Germany

10.79

7.50

8.38

America

6.62

6.62

6.42

Asia

5.44

5.36

5.36

Other

8.31

5.97

9.00

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Voith Group

12.02

12.30

16.22

Germany

15.84

15.76

17.40

Europe excluding Germany

12.71

13.26

13.08

America

Mechanical and plant engineering
in years

10.20

10.43

10.75

Asia

6.23

5.88

5.80

Other

8.31

7.44

9.00

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

5.79

5.20

5.30

Germany

6.12

6.25

6.23

Europe excluding Germany

9.33

4.79

5.67

Service business
in years
Voith Group

America

3.67

3.71

3.36

Asia

2.50

3.00

4.08

n.a.

4.05

n.a.

Other
n.a. = not available.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 85

Miscellaneous

Work-Life Balance
Parental Leave in Fiscal Year 2013/14
Number

Germany

Europe excluding
Germany

America

Asia

Other

32,302

15,087

6,031

8,273

2,800

111

5,971

2,592

1,282

1,526

540

31

26,331

12,495

4,749

6,747

2,260

80

Voith Group

Employees entitled to parental leave
Total
Women
Men

Total parental leave take-up
Total

459

412

41

5

1

0

Women

210

174

31

4

1

0

Men

249

238

10

1

0

0

441

32

2

8

0

Employees who returned to Voith after parental leave
Total

483

Women

171

139

22

2

8

0

Men

312

302

10

0

0

0

294

291

2

0

1

0

66

65

0

0

1

0

228

226

2

0

0

0

Employees who returned to Voith after parental leave
who are still at Voith 12 months after returning
Total
Women
Men

Figures from HR Cockpit. Since all 41,651 employees were not included in the
system until the end of the fiscal year and we began the fiscal year with around
33,000 employees, not all personnel movements were recorded in full.

Occupational Safety
Total Number of Employees Represented on Health and
Safety Management-Worker Committees
As a % (of the headcount)
Voith Group
n.r. = not recorded.

86 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

75

75

n.r.

Occupational Health and Safety for the Total Workforce by Gender and Region
Work accidents (number)
Voith Group

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

155

181

208

Germany

77

95

108

Europe excluding Germany

32

39

47

America

32

33

41

Asia

13

12

8

Other

1

2

4

Work accidents resulting in fatalities*

0

1

0

2.0

2.3

2.8

Frequency rate
Voith Group
Germany

2.6

3.1

3.6

Europe excluding Germany

2.2

2.6

3.6

America

1.4

1.5

1.9

Asia

1.2

1.1

0.8

Other

3.0

5.4

10.7

Voith Group

381.2

425.1

445.9

Germany

305.3

401.4

426.0

247.1

316.1

540.1

Severity rate

Europe excluding Germany
America

540.6

624.9

526.8

Asia

456.3

204.8

213.2

24.4

1,298.7

65.8

Voith Group

2,553,488

2,654,348

2,301,158

Germany

1,615,492

1,445,441

1,469,046

Other

Absenteeism

Europe excluding Germany

437,385

479,907

440,526

America

380,024

637,407

318,682

Asia

117,207

91,594

72,905

3,380

0

0

Other

Ratio of Days Lost in %
Voith Group

3.3

3.4

3.1

Germany

5.4

4.8

4.9

Europe excluding Germany

3.0

3.2

3.4

America

1.7

2.9

1.5

Asia

1.1

0.8

0.7

Other

1.0

0.0

0.0

The following information is not currently recorded:
- Frequency of work-related accidents by region and gender
- Days lost and total absenteeism
- Occupational diseases
We would like to report this information by 2015.
*Unfortunately, there was one fatal accident in fiscal year 2012/13. Two employees
on a service call were involved in a car accident in which one was killed.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 87

Miscellaneous

Training and Education
Vocational Training
Number
Apprentices and students at cooperative universities

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

1,294

1,197

1,206

in Germany

918

940

n.r.

at the Heidenheim location

437

270

n.r.

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

97,056

127,379

127,491

3,443

3,915

4,980

2.9

2.9

3.4

Hours of Training
Total number of hours
Number of employees who underwent further training
Total expenditure in € millions
The following information is not currently recorded:
- Distribution of the average hours of further education by employee category
and gender. We would like to report this information by 2015.

88 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Diversity
Diversity in Senior Management Circle
Women in Senior Management Circle
Number of women in SMC
Total number of SMC members

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

6

7

4

96

92

94

6,3

7,6

4,3

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

in %
Proportion of women in SMC

Distribution of Women and Men at Management Level
Number

Corporate Board of Management, Executive Team, Senior Management Circle
Men

96

99

90

Women

6

7

4

< 30 years

0

n.r.

n.r.

30–50 years

48

n.r.

n.r.

> 50 years

54

n.r.

n.r.

Non-German members

30

n.r.

n.r.

383

398

n.r.

35

40

n.r.

Regional directors/chairpersons, Management Board of operating units,
heads of product groups, managers in Group management functions
Men
Women
< 30 years

1

n.r.

n.r.

30–50 years

243

n.r.

n.r.

> 50 years

174

n.r.

n.r.

Non-German members

208

n.r.

n.r.

n.r.

n.r.

751

691

n.r.

98

76

n.r.

Mid- and lower-level management
Men
Women
< 30 years

5

n.r.

n.r.

529

n.r.

n.r.

> 50 years

315

n.r.

n.r.

Non-German members

495

n.r.

n.r.

n.r.

n.r.

1,230

1,188

n.r.

139

123

n.r.

30–50 years

Total (i.e. over all management levels)
Men
Women
< 30 years

6

n.r.

n.r.

30–50 years

820

n.r.

n.r.

> 50 years

543

n.r.

n.r.

Non-German members

733

n.r.

n.r.

n.r. = not recorded.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 89

Miscellaneous

Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities
in %
Employment ratio of people with disabilities
Reference: Voith Germany excluding Voith Industrial Services. The figures
comprise person with serious disabilities who held a certificate of serious
disability.
Note: Key figures on training in compliance, anti-corruption and human
rights are reported on in the section “Sustainable Management”.

90 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

4.3

3.8

3.6

Responsibility for Society
Not-for-Profit Engagement
Donations and Sponsoring
€ in millions

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Voith Group

1.89

0.95

1.87

Fundação Voith*

0.03

0.43

0.27

Total

1.92

1.38

2.14

Hanns-Voith-Foundation

0.48

0.40

0.38

*Adjusted to the revenue situation.

Sponsorship Aid by Project
in %
Education
Social affairs
Sport
Culture

2013/14
20.7

2012/13*

2011/12*

20.5 (28.5)

29.5 (33.1)

9.5

14.1 (14.9)

26.7 (24.4)

60.9

58.1 (45.1)

32.0 (27.2)

9.0

7.2 (11.5)

11.8 (15.4)

1.92

1.38

2.14

in € million

Total
*Figures in brackets with Hans-Voith-Foundation.

Taxes Paid
Taxes Paid by Region
in € thousands

2013/14

2012/13

2011/12

Germany

29,892

-11,468*

41,090

Europe excluding Germany

18,695

22,437

12,515

America

15,190

16,999

24,550

Asia

18,035

13,617

21,983

Other

2,696

3,407

3,656

Total

84,508

44,992

103,794

*The excess of tax refunds from tax payments made in Germany is based
on a series of interim audits at domestic companies, which have now been
concluded and which led to tax reimbursement.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 91

Miscellaneous

Delimitation of the Significant Topics
Sustainable Management
Significant topic

Relevance along the value chain (delimitation)
Upstream activities
(e.g. supply chain)

Section: Sustainable Management
Dialog with the company’s stakeholders
Responsible investment, operating and business practices
Integration of sustainability in the Group’s strategy
Long-term economic stability
Long-term, trusted supplier relationship
Mechanisms to prevent corruption and ensure compliance
Company’s return on investment

Section: Responsibility for the Environment
Energy efficiency in production
Material efficiency in production
Reduction of emissions/pollutants/waste in production
Water efficiency in production

Section: Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains
Dialog and cooperation with customers
Energy efficiency of the products
Long service life of the products
Minimization of the environmental impacts of products
Ensuring maximum product safety
Quality of the products and services
Technological expertise/innovation
Sustainability in the supply chain

Section: Responsibility for Employees
Occupational safety
Personnel development/training and education
Diversity and equal opportunity
Leadership

Section: Responsibility for Society
Transparent donation/sponsoring policy

All the topics and aspects identified as being significant for Voith are
relevant to all Voith Group Divisions and usually at all local companies.
The assessment is based on the results of the stakeholder survey and
the materiality workshops.

92 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Activities of the
Voith Group

Downstream activities
(e.g. use)

Goals and Goal Achievement
Sustainable Management
Subject area

Goals

Measures

Date

Integration of
sustainability in the
Group’s strategy

Firm establishment
of sustainability at
the company

Development of KPIs for the area
of social affairs

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Depiction of all sustainability goals
and the level to which they have been
achieved in MRT by Group Division

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Design of a training concept

FY 2013/14

Merger of existing databases into
one standard database

FY 2014/15

Inclusion of the agenda item
“Sustainability” in the Advisory
Board agenda

FY 2013/14

Conduct training on the issue of
sustainability at the Voith Academy

FY 2013/14

Revision as part of HR
transformation (sustainability will be included
in this)

Rescheduled:
FY 2016/17

Inclusion of the issue of sustainability at
induction events for new employees

FY 2013/14

Revision as part of HR
transformation (Orientation Days – uniform standards for induction of new
employees; sustainability
will be included in this)

Rescheduled:
FY 2016/17

Design and implementation of initial
measures from the concept for
communicating sustainability

FY 2014/15

Conduct a stakeholder analysis

FY 2013/14

Repetition of the survey/inclusion of
it in the strategic process

FY 2015/16

Dialog with the
company’s
stakeholders

Establishment
of stakeholder
dialog based on
megatrends relevant
to the company

Details

Status

Achieved
The project has been
launched and is expected to be completed
by the end of FY 2014/15

Ongoing

Rescheduled:
FY 2015/16

New

See the section
“Sustainable Management”
for the results

Achieved

New

For the following subject areas, there have not yet been any objectives defined.
- Responsible investment, operating and business practices
- Mechanisms to prevent corruption and ensure compliance

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 93

Miscellaneous

Responsibility for the Environment
Subject area

Goals

Energy efficiency in
production

Reduction of energy
needs by 20 %
(base: 2011/12)

Material efficiency in
production

Water efficiency in
production

Measures

Date

Details

Status

FY 2017/18

Stagnation of the KPI at
105 MWh/€ million sales,
sharp increase in the
list of measures on the
reporting period

Ongoing

Hot-spot analyses of cross-location
topics and at locations with the largest
consumption drivers. Sensitization of
employees through a pinpointed communication campaign

FY 2017/18

See the section
“Responsibility for the
Environment”

Ongoing

Taking energy efficiency into account in
new plant and reconstruction

FY 2015/16

Development of a Group
Ongoing
policy for new plant and reconstruction, taking account
of energy efficiency factors

FY 2017/18

Increase in the KPI to
9.01 t/€ million sales,
increase in the list of
measures for auxiliaries

Ongoing

Hot-spot analyses of cross-location
topics and at locations with the largest
consumption drivers. Sensitization of
employees through a pinpointed communication campaign

FY 2017/18

See the section
“Responsibility for the
Environment”

Ongoing

Development of a standard method
for increasing material efficiency in
production

FY 2014/15

Fundamental methodology formulated
(“Ishikawa”) and piloted
in the hot-spot analysis
at the Shanghai location;
approach developed
further in joint discussion
with the design-to-cost
and OPEX organization.
Joint pilot at a location
planned in FY 2014/15

Ongoing

FY 2017/18

0.26 m³ per € thousand
sales, just above the
target level for FY 17/18;
sharp increase in the
measure pipeline in the
reporting period and the
implementation level as
of Q3 in FY 13/14

Ongoing

FY 2017/18

See the section
“Responsibility for the
Environment”

Ongoing

Reduction of
specific waste
volume by 25 %
(base: 2011/12)

Reduction of
specific freshwater
consumption by
10 % (base: 2011/12)

Hot-spot analyses of cross-location
topics and at locations with the largest
consumption drivers. Sensitization of
employees through a pinpointed communication campaign

94 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Subject area

Goals

Measures

Date

Details

Status

For the following subject areas, there have not yet been any objectives defined.
At Voith we group
activities to reduce
emissions and pollutants
under the term “Eco
standards” (see the
section “Responsibility
for the Environment”)

Reduction of emissions/
pollutants

Other

Introduction of a global, standardized
hazardous materials management
process

FY 2013/14

Integration of the hazardous materials
databases of all production locations
(America, Asia, other European countries)
in the central hazardous materials
database

FY 2015/16

Introduction of the Eco Compliance
Concept, incl. related software,
worldwide

FY 2014/15

The Voith Eco-Compliance Concept was established at 39 locations
worldwide (corresponds
to 56 % of sales) by
means of training and
on-site support by the
end of FY 2013/14. We
aim to integrate all locations in the system by
the end of FY 2014/15

Ongoing

Implementation of a Group-wide reporting
system for recording work accidents,
environmental incidents, and other
relevant incidents

FY 2014/15

Forms and processes
were merged and
standardized; worldwide
rollout was conducted

Achieved

Creation of the concept for training in
the subject of the environment for all
employees

FY 2013/14

Concept has been
created, the training materials for all employees
have been produced and
they have been provided
for instruction as PowerPoint slides and online

Achieved

Study to define environmental assessment
criteria when hiring logistics s­ ervices in
cooperation with a university

FY 2013/14

An assessment catalog
has been created. It
comprises not only the
type and replacement
rate of the means of
transport (e.g. truck),
but also criteria such
as transparency/insight
provided by the logistics
service provider on
journeys made and tonkilometers per means of
transport, and related
CO 2 emissions

Achieved

See the section
“Responsibility for
the Environment”

Achieved

Ongoing

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 95

Miscellaneous

Responsibility for Products and Supply Chains
Subject area

Goals

Measures

Date

Details

Status

Sustainable supply
chain

Manage risks/
opportunities in the
supply chain

Implementation of the “Blocked Supplier”
concept for blocking suppliers

FY 2013/14

Increase the proportion of goods procured from evaluated suppliers to 79 % of
the purchasing volume

FY 2013/14

The supplier evaluation
ratio in FY 2013/14 was
only 61 % of the invoice
volume; an increase
to 79 % of the volume
will not be achieved in
2014/15 either, as far
as can be assessed
at present. The goal is
to maintain a supplier evaluation ratio of
around 60 % over the
long term

Not achieved

Revision of evaluation criteria for complying with environmental and social standards in the supplier database

FY 2013/14

The criteria have been
retained in their old form.
The goal for FY 2014/15
has been redefined

Not achieved

Supplier self-assessment ratio (SSA ratio):
introduction with the goal of obtaining
80 % of purchased goods and services
(based on purchasing volume) from suppliers who have a current self-assessment

FY 2014/15

Ongoing

Risk analysis study, creation of a risk map

FY 2015/16

New

Revision of evaluation criteria for complying with environmental and social standards in the supplier database

FY 2014/15

New

Harmonization of standards

FY 2014/15

Further development and rollout of the
Purchasing Training Program to Asia and
South America

FY 2014/15

New

Assessment of development processes of
products and services regarding energy
and resource efficiency

FY 2014/15

Ongoing

Include “product energy efficiency” as a
criterion in the development process and
risk checklist

FY 2014/15

Achieved

Revision and standardization of the General
Purchasing Conditions

New

For the following subject areas, there have not yet been any objectives defined.
Energy efficiency of the
products

- Quality of the products and services
- Ensuring maximum product safety
- Dialog and cooperation with the customer
- Long service life of the products
- Technological expertise/innovation
- Minimization of the environmental impacts of products
- Long-term, trusted supplier relationship

96 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Fulfilled at VT, VP PS

Ongoing

Responsibility for Employees
Subject area

Goals

Occupational health
and safety

Reduce accident
ratio to less than
two accidents per
million working
hours

Measures

Make managers aware of
workplace safety

Reduce accident
severity to below
350 hours lost per
million working
hours

Occupational health
management

Date

Details

Status

Medium term

In FY 2013/14, Voith
worldwide achieved a ratio
of 2.0 accidents per million
working hours. In the current FY 2014/15, we have
been able to keep improving and were continuously
below 2.0 by the end of Q2

Achieved

FY 2015/16

Is done continuously

Achieved

Medium term

Voith overall is below
350 hours lost per million
working hours; no Division is above 400 hours
lost per million working
hours. The severity rate in
FY 2013/14 was 381 hours
lost per 1,000,000 hours
worked, still just above our
target of 350

Ongoing

Benchmarking and setting of objectives
for reducing accident severity

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Development and introduction of a
standardized reporting system for
management, incl. uniform definition and
introduction of sick time

FY 2012/13

Establishment of a specific KPI system for
occupational health management

FY 2014/15

Achieved

Establishment of an internal network for
standardizing workplace medicine across
Germany

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Support in reintegration of employees
with long-term illnesses

FY 2013/14

Occupational health
management teams established at all locations
in Germany

Achieved

Provide information to employees on the
topics of ergonomics, skin, noise, and respiratory protection (approx. every two months)
for reducing work-related illnesses

FY 2013/14

There has been a Flash
News every quarter on
selected topics since the
beginning of 2014

Achieved

Introduction of an international procedure
for occupational reintegration management
tailored to local needs

FY 2014/15

Rollout of a standardized company medical support system (Germany)

FY 2013/14

Contained in the quarterly sustainability report
to management (see the
section “Sustainable
Management”)

Achieved

Ongoing

Initial meeting of internal
and external company
doctors staged in the summer of 2014. A standardized company medical
support system is being
rolled out in Germany as
part of the reorganization
initiated in FY 2014/15

Rescheduled:
FY 2016/17

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 97

Miscellaneous

Subject area

Goals

Measures

Date

Diversity and
equal opportunity

Firmly establish diversity and inclusion
in the corporate
culture

Increase proportion of women in technical
careers (Germany)

FY 2014/15

D&I Awareness Workshops for managers

FY 2014/15

Increase proportion of women in senior
management to 10 %

FY 2014/15

Ongoing

Implementation of a global database
for collecting the master data of all
employees

FY 2014/15

Achieved

Further development of Group-wide key
figures in the HR area; focus on KPIs in
the transformation context

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Introduction of the module Learning &
Development for the People & Excellence
Platform

FY 2015/16

Achieved

Introduction of a Group-wide standardized development center procedure
(Career Compass)

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Preparation and implementation of
a ­u niform “Global Graduate Program”

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Talent management: Pilot projects
for ­e mployee recruiting in China

FY 2013/14

Achieved

Annual feedback meeting with all
­e mployees: degree of coverage: all
employees

FY 2014/15

84 % (previous year: 88 %)
Ongoing
of employees in mechanical
and plant engineering took
part in such a meeting in the
reporting period

Mapping of the entire performance
­p rocess in pep.

FY 2014/15

System is available.
The focus is now on HR
providing managers with
intensive support. The
system helps enhance
transparency over the
performance management
process and increase
efficiency

Global rollout of the pep. “Recruiting”
module

FY 2014/15

New

Revision of the recruiting processes
with regard to developments in mobile
recruiting

FY 2015/16

New

Other

Details

Status
Achieved

First training courses held.
See the section “Responsibility for Employees”

Ongoing

For the following subject areas, there have not yet been any objectives defined.
Personnel development/training and
education

98 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

New

Responsibility for Society
Subject area

Goals

Measures

Date

Details

Status

For the following subject areas, there have not yet been any objectives defined.
- Transparent donations and sponsoring policy
Other

Develop next generation of engineers and
university graduates in technical courses

Continuous

Achieved

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 99

Miscellaneous

GRI-Index
General Standard Disclosures
Organizational and Report Profile
Indicators

Comment

Reference

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1

Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the
organization

6–7

Organizational Profile
G4-3

Name of the organization

2

G4-4

The primary brands, products, and services

9–12

G4-5

The location of the organization’s headquarters

10

G4-6

The number of countries where the organization operates,
and names of countries where either the organization has
significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the
sustainability topics covered in the report

AR 2014: 36, 110–111

G4-7

The nature of ownership and legal form

AR 2014: 36, 42

G4-8

Markets served

10–12, 68

G4-9

Scale of the organization

11–12, 68, 82,
AR 2014: 100–108

G4-10

Total workforce

G4-11

The percentage of total employees covered by collective
bargaining agreements

83

G4-12

Description of the organization’s supply chain

42–43, 68

G4-13

Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the
organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain

2, 49

G4-14

The organization’s precautionary approach or principle

As a family-owned company with a long-term
orientation, Voith is committed to a precautionary
approach. This is enshrined in the Group Directive
“Environment”.

G4-15

Externally developed economic, environmental and social
charters, principles, or other initiatives

Voith implements the principle of sustainability in its
core processes and is guided by the ten principles
of the UN Global Compact.

G4-16

Memberships of associations

In February 2014, Dr. Lienhard took over as Chairman of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business. Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2013
for details on further memberships.

Supervised workers such as temps are currently
not logged groupwide in our employee data
system. We are investigating possibilities to record
information on supervised workers throughout
the Voith Group.

99

SR 2013: 13

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17

Entities included in the report

2, AR 2014: 110–111

G4-18

Definition of the report’s content

15–16

G4-19

Material Aspects identified in the process for defining the report’s
content

15–16

G4-20

Material Aspects within the organization

92

G4-21

Material Aspects outside the organization

92

G4-22

The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous
reports, and the reasons for such restatements

2

G4-23

Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope
and Aspect Boundaries

2

100 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Indikatoren

Comment

Reference

Engagement of stakeholders
G4-24

Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization

14

G4-25

The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with
whom to engage

14

G4-26

Approach to stakeholder engagement

14–15

G4-27

Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders

14–15

Report Profile
G4-28

Reporting period

2

G4-29

Date of the most recent previous report

2

G4-30

Reporting cycle

2

G4-31

Contact point

4

G4-32

GRI Content Index

G4-33

Assurance

2

Governance structure of the organization

10, AR 2014: 36

Governance
G4-34

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56

The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms
of behavior

17–19, 42–46

G4-57

The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice
on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to
organizational integrity

17–19

G4-58

The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns
about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to
organizational integrity

17, 19

Specific Standard Disclosures
Economic performance indicators
DMA* and Indicators

Reference

Comment

Aspect: Economic Performance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

62, AR 2014: 37–38

G4-EC3

Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations

AR 2014: 158–165

G4-EC4

Financial assistance received from government

No significant financial assistance from
government was received in the reporting period.

*D isclosures on Management Approach.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 101

Miscellaneous

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Reference

Aspect: Materials
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–29, 32–34

G4-EN1

Materials used

74, 32

G4-EN2

Secondary raw materials

74, 32

Aspect: Energy
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–32

G4-EN3

Energy consumption within the organization

29–32, 70–73

G4-EN4

Energy consumption outside of the organization

29–32, 72–73

G4-EN5

Energy intensity

29–32, 72–73

G4-EN6

Reduction of energy consumption

29–32, 74–75

G4-EN7

Reductions in energy requirements of products and services

39–41

Aspect: Water
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–29, 34–35

G4-EN8

Total water withdrawal by source

75

G4-EN10

Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused

76

Aspect: Emissions
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–32

G4-EN15

Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

29–32, 70–73

G4-EN16

Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
(Scope 2)

29–32, 70–73

G4-EN18

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

29–32, 72–73

G4-EN19

Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

30, 74–75, 79–80

G4-EN20

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)

26–27, 79–80

G4-EN21

NO x, SO x and other significant air emissions

26–27, 79–80

Aspect: Effluents and Waste
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–35

G4-EN22

Total water discharge by quality and destination

35, 76

G4-EN23

Total weight of waste by type and disposal method

32–34, 78

G4-EN24

Total number and volume of significant spills

G4-EN25

Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste
deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention,
Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste
shipped internationally

32–34, 78

G4-EN26

Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of
water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by
the organization’s discharges of water and runoff

35, 77

*Disclosures on Management Approach.

102 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

Voith is not aware of any significant incidents.

DMA* and Indicators

Reference

Comment

Aspect: Products and Services
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–23, 38–45

G4-EN27

Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts
of products and services

38–41

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-EN29

Monetary value of significant fines and total number
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

17–19
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents.

Aspect: Transport
G4-DMA

Management Approach

22–23

G4-EN30

Significant environmental impacts of transport

22

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

42–45

G4-EN32

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using environmental criteria

43–45

Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Management Approach

23–27, 42–45

G4-EN34

Number of grievances about environmental impacts
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal
grievance mechanisms

23–27, 45

Social Performance Indicators

Labor Practices and Decent Work
Aspect: Employment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA1

Total number and rates of new employee hires and
employee turnover by age group, gender and region

G4-LA2

Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not
provided to temporary or part-time employees, by
significant locations of operation

G4-LA3

Return to work and retention rates after parental leave,
by gender

48–51, 54–56
The data for the fiscal year was not able to be
reported in full because of a change in IT system.
We will report this information next year.

83–84

51

The data for the fiscal year was not able to be
reported in full because of a change in IT system.
We will report this information next year.

54–55, 86

* Disclosures on Management Approach.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 103

Miscellaneous

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Reference

Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
G4-DMA

Management Approach

48–51

G4-LA4

Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes,
including whether these are specified in collective
agreements

50

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
G4-DMA

Management Approach

56–59

G4-LA5

Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint
management-worker health and safety committees that
help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety
programs

86

G4-LA6

Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender

The data for the fiscal year was not able to be
reported in full because of a change in IT system.
We will report this information next year.

57–59, 87

This information is not available at the moment.
We are currently rolling out a new IT system and
intend to report the information next year.

52–53, 88

Aspect: Training and Education
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA9

Average hours of training per year per employee by
gender, and by employee category

48–53

G4-LA10

Programs for skills management and lifelong learning
that support the continued employability of employees
and assist them in managing career endings

50–53

G4-LA11

Percentage of employees receiving regular performance
and career development reviews, by gender and by
employee category

50–53

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-DMA

Management Approach

48–51, 54

G4-LA12

Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of
employees per employee category according to gender,
age group, minority group membership, and other
indicators of diversity

AR 2014: 6–7,12–13
www.voith.com/en/
group/organization-158.
html, 89–90, 54

Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-LA13

Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to
men by employee category, by significant locations of
operation

48–51
This data is confidential and so Voith does
not report it.

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices
G4-DMA

Management Approach

42–45

G4-LA14

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
labor practices criteria

43–44, 44–45

*Disclosures on Management Approach.

104 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

DMA* and Indicators

Reference

Comment

Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 42–45

G4-LA16

Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed,
and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms

45

Human Rights
Aspect: Investments
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR1

Total number and percentage of significant investment
agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or
that underwent human rights screening

G4-HR2

Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant
to operations, including the percentage of employees trained

17–19
Global respect for basic human rights is enshrined
in our Code of Conduct. All investment decisions
are subject to this code.
18

Aspect: Non-discrimination
G4-DMA

Management Approach

54–56

G4-HR3

Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions
taken

54

Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR4

Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise
freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated
or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights

17–19, 42–44, 48–51
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in the
reporting period.

50

Aspect: Child Labor
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR5

Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for
incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the
effective abolition of child labor

17–19, 42–44
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in the
reporting period.

Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-HR6

Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to
contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory
labor

17–19, 42–44
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in the
reporting period.

* Disclosures on Management Approach.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 105

Miscellaneous

DMA* and Indicators

Comment

Reference

General Purchasing
Conditions: http://
www.voith.com/en/
group/purchasing/
general-purchasingconditions--176.html
Code of Conduct:
http://voith.com/de/
coc-english.pdf

Aspect: Security Practices
G4-DMA

Management Approach

We ensure our employees are protected mainly by
working together with external service providers.
Like all our service providers, they are subject to
Voith’s General Purchasing Conditions. Like Voith’s
own security personnel they are likewise obligated
to comply with the Code of Conduct.

G4-HR7

Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are
relevant to operations

Security service providers are obligated to support
compliance with the Code of Conduct by suitable
means. Voith does not currently have any data on
training held by our service providers.

Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 42–45

G4-HR10

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
human rights criteria

43–45

Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 42–45

G4-HR12

Number of grievances about human rights impacts
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance
mechanisms

45

Society
Aspect: Anti-corruption
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-SO3

Total number and percentage of operations assessed
for risks related to corruption and the significant risks
identified

G4-SO4

Communication and training on anti-corruption policies
and procedures

G4-SO5

Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

17–19
Voith does not report on the percentage of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.
At Voith, corruption risks are assessed by internal
reviews and external audits. Quantitative data is
subject to confidentiality.

18

17–19, 43–44, 69
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in the
reporting period.

* Disclosures on Management Approach.

Aspect: Public Policy
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 61–62

G4-SO6

Total value of political contributions by country and
recipient/beneficiary

63

106 I Voith Sustainability Report 2014

DMA* and Indicators

Reference

Comment

Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19

G4-SO7

Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,
anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes

18

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-SO8

Monetary value of significant fines and total number of
non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and
regulations

17–19
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in
the reporting period.

Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 42–45

G4-SO9

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
criteria for impacts on society

43–45

Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society
G4-DMA

Management Approach

17–19, 42–45

G4-SO11

Number of grievances about impacts on society filed,
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance
mechanisms

17, 45

Product Responsibility
Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
G4-DMA

Management Approach

38–45

G4-PR1

Percentage of significant product and service categories
for which health and safety impacts are assessed for
improvement

38–39

G4-PR2

Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety
impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by
type of outcomes

Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in
the reporting period.

Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA

Management Approach

G4-PR9

Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with
laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of
products and services

17–19
Voith is not aware of any significant incidents in
the reporting period.

*Disclosures on Management Approach.

Voith Sustainability Report 2014 I 107

Imprint

Contact

Publisher
Voith GmbH
Corporate Communications
St. Pöltener Str. 43
89522 Heidenheim
Germany
Phone: +49 7321 37-0
Fax:
+49 7321 37-7000
E-mail: info@voith.com
www.voith.com

Project Management and
Contact Point for Questions
Regarding Content
Corporate Sustainability
Torsten Kallweit,
Markus Schönberger
Further
Information
This report is also available in
German and Chinese.
The German, English and
Chinese editions are available
in the Internet at:
www.voith.com/de/konzern/
nachhaltigkeit-178.html
www.voith.com/en/group/
sustainability-178.html
www.voith.com/cn/le-groupe/
durabilite-178.html
In addition to the Sustainability
Report, Voith also publishes a
comprehensive Annual Report
at the end of the fiscal year.
Available online at:
http://www.voith.com/en/group/
facts-figures-96.html

Consulting
Schlange & Co. GmbH
Text
Carlsberg & Richter GmbH & Co. KG
Design
Corporate Communications and
G2 Printmedienmanufaktur GmbH
Picture credits
Jun Hu: Title, p. 20
Dawin Meckel: P. 8, 36, 46, 60, 65
Energydesign (Shanghai) Co. Ltd: P. 49
Voith: Other photo material

Environmentally
Friendly Production
All CO2 emissions produced during the
course of printing and preparing the Voith
Sustainability Report were determined. By
making a proportionally equal investment in
a Gold Standard climate project, the corresponding CO2 emissions will be saved in the
future and the Voith Sustainability Report will
be CO2-compensated.

Print

compensated
Id-No. 1547941
www.bvdm-online.de

The Respecta Silk recycled paper we used
for the Voith Sustainability Report 2014 is
made from at least 60 % secondary fibers
and was produced using a Voith paper machine.

Printed in Germany, © Voith GmbH, 2015-07

Sustainability Report 2014

Sustainability Report 2014

This Sustainability Report is also
available in German and Chinese.
These versions and further information can also be downloaded
from the Internet.
www.voith.com

