S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4

T H E VO L K SWAG E N VA L U E C H A I N
The production of automobiles is based on a complex value chain. Sustainability must therefore be
demonstrated throughout the entire process, including the upstream and downstream stages. This
holistic principle applies throughout this report.

R ES EARC H &
D EV E LO PME NT

PRO C U R E ME NT

Year for year, the Volks wa gen Group invests more in research and development
that any other company in the world, laying the foundations for new models and
innovative concepts with which to master
the challenges of the future: digitization,
networking and electric mobility.

Every year, the Volks wa gen Group purchases a wide range of raw materials,
components and other goods. A sustainable
supply chain and environmentally compatible transportation solutions form an indispensable part of demonstrating comprehensive responsibility for human rights, as
well as a commitment to the environment
and to the battle against corruption.

45,742

€ 145.5 billion

employees
in Technical Development (2014)

annual procurement
volume (2014)

THE VOLKS WA GEN VALUE CHAIN

PRO D UCTI ON

M AR K E TI NG & SALE S

Every working day the Volks wa gen Group
manufactures an average of 41,000 vehicles. As we do so, efficient production ranks
alongside employee health and safety as
our core goal. New concepts help prepare
employees for the future, covering every
step from vocational education and training onwards.

The Volks wa gen Group markets its vehicles in 31 countries. Around the world,
comfort and safety are considered the key
customer requirements. We continuously
reduce the fuel consumption of our models
and offer alternative mobility services.

118

10.14 million

production locations on
four continents (2014)

vehicles sold
worldwide (2014)

AF TE R-SALE S &
F I NANC I AL S E RV I C ES
Service provision includes supporting dealerships to ensure they can provide quality
advice and maintenance; managing the
original parts business; and providing innovative vehicle-related financial services.
Fuel-economy driver training courses play
an effective part in cutting fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions.

978

people attended Driving Experience
eco-driving courses (2014)

p.

8

ST R AT E G Y

p.

28
E CO N O MY

p.

50
PEOPLE

p.

80

E N V I RO N M E N T

p.

112

I N D I C ATO R S A N D
G OA L S

INTRODUC TION
U3	­Volks­wa­gen Value Chain
2 Portrait of the Group
4	Brand and Model Overview
6 Map of Production Locations

STR ATEGY
12	Essay Prof. Dr. Martin Winterkorn
14 Our Approach
20 Sustainable Management
ECONOMY
22 Risk Management
23 Stakeholder Management
32	Essay Hans Dieter Pötsch
34 Management Approach
37 Product Responsibility
40 Local Value Added
42 Supplier Management
46 Compliance
48 Ratings and Indexes

ENVIRONMENT

PEOPLE
54
56
57
62
66
69
72
78

Essay Dr. Horst Neumann
Management Approach
Qualification
Performance and Participation
Health and Fitness
Advancing Women and Diversity
Social Responsibility
Interview Bernd Osterloh

84 	Essay
Prof. Dr. Jochem Heizmann

 I NDIC ATOR S ­
AND GOAL S

BACKGROUND
138
142
143
146
U5
U7

116
118
120
125
134

Our Approach
Financial Indicators
Personnel Indicators
Environmental Indicators
Goals and Actions

GRI Index
Consumption and Emissions
Assurance Report
Credits
Supplementary Information
About This Report

86 Management Approach
90 Group-Wide Programs
94 	Product Planning and
­Development
100 Production and Logistics
107 Sales, Use and Recycling

A dedicated microsite at sustainability-report2014.­volks­wa­genag.com hosts all the articles
and graphics from this report as well as providing additional information. Items in the r­ eport
on which further details are available on the Internet are marked with this symbol:
­Content can be accessed directly online using the number indicated.
Consumption and emissions data for all models mentioned in this report are set out on
page 144. Cross-references are marked with this symbol: •
Items in the report which are covered by the sustainability audit in line with ISAE3000 to
qualify for limited assurance (see pages 145 – 147) are marked with the following symbol:

1

INTRODUCTION

A GROUP ­
OF STRONG BRANDS
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group, based in Wolfsburg, is one of the world’s leading automobile
­manufacturers and the largest in Europe. In 2014 the Group increased the number of cars and
commercial vehicles delivered to customers to more than 10 million, which equates to 12.9%
of the global passenger car market. The Group’s sales revenue totaled €202,458 million in 2014,
while profit after tax came to €11,068 million.

trucks. Other business fields include the manufacture of largebore diesel engines and special gear units, for example. A broad
range of financial services completes the offering.

ST RU C T U R E
The V
­ olks­w a­gen Group is a publicly quoted stock corporation under German law and owns twelve brands from seven European
countries: V
­ olks­
w a­
gen Passenger Cars, Audi, SEAT, ŠKODA ,
Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, Ducati, ­Volks­w a­gen
Commercial Vehicles, Scania and MAN. All brands in the Automotive Division – with the exception of ­Volks­w a­gen Passenger
Cars and ­Volks­w a­gen Commercial Vehicles – are legally independent, separate companies.
­Volks­w a­gen AG is the parent company of the V
­ olks­w a­gen Group.
It develops vehicles and components for the Group’s brands, but
also produces and sells vehicles, in particular passenger cars
and light commercial vehicles from the ­Volks­w a­gen Passenger
Cars and ­Volks­w a­gen Commercial Vehicles brands. In its function as parent company, V
­ olks­w a­gen AG holds indirect or direct
interests in AUDI AG , SEAT S.A., ŠKODA AUTO a.s., Dr. Ing. h.c. F.
Porsche AG , Scania AB , MAN SE , ­Volks­w a ­gen Financial Services
AG and a large number of other companies in Germany and
abroad. More detailed disclosures are contained in the list of
shareholdings in accordance with sections 285 and 313 of the
Handelsgesetzbuch ( HGB – German Commercial Code), which
can be accessed at www.­volks­w a­genag.com/ir and forms part of
the annual financial statements.

L O C AT I O N S A N D E M PL OY E ES
The V
­ olks­w a­gen Group’s production network comprised 118 production locations at the end of the reporting year (see pages 6 – 7).
Europe remains the heart of our production activities with 72 vehicle and component production locations, 29 of them in Germany
alone. The significance of the Asia-Pacific region is continuously
increasing, with a total of 29 production locations. In North America (four) and South America (nine) the number of locations remained unchanged in the reporting year. In Africa the Group
maintains four production locations. Almost 600,000 employees
produce an average of 41,000 vehicles per working day or provide
mobility-related services, or work in other business fields.

MARKETS
With its brands, the ­Volks­w a­gen Group has a presence in all
­r elevant automotive markets around the world. Western Europe,
China, Brazil, the USA , Russia and Mexico are currently the
key sales markets for the Group. The Group maintained its
strong competitive position in the reporting period thanks
to its wide range of attractive and environmentally friendly
models. We ­r ecorded an encouraging increase in demand in
many of our key markets. Worldwide, for the manufacture of its
­products, the Group purchased goods and services to the value
of €145.5 billion, an increase of 7.7% compared to the previous
year. This ­includes the purchasing volume for the Chinese
joint venture companies. Suppliers in Germany accounted for
a share of 36.1%.
Further details on the development of the Group, its holdings,
and changes with regard to production locations or activities can
be found at:
1, 2, 3

PRO D U C T S
The V
­ olks­w a­gen Group is one of the leading multibrand groups
in the automotive industry. The Company’s business activities
comprise the Automotive and Financial Services divisions. The
business activities of the various companies in the ­Volks­w a­gen
Group focus on developing, producing and selling passenger
cars, light commercial vehicles, trucks and buses. The product
portfolio ranges from motorcycles to fuel-efficient small cars and
luxury vehicles. In the commercial vehicles segment, the offering begins with small pickups and extends to buses and heavy

2

PORTR AIT OF THE GROUP

BR AND AND MODEL OVERVIEW

M A P O F P R O D U C T I O N L O C AT I O N S

T H E B OA R D O F M A N AG E M E N T O F T H E ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P
(from left to right)
Prof. Rupert Stadler – Chairman of the Board of Management of AUDI, Christian Klingler – Sales and Marketing,
Prof. Dr. rer. pol. Horst Neumann – Personnel Management and Organization, Prof. Dr. rer. pol. Dr.-Ing. E.h. Jochem Heizmann –
China, Dr. rer. pol. h.c. Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz – Procurement, Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. Martin ­Winterkorn – Chairman of the
Board of Management of V
­ olks­wa­gen Aktiengesellschaft, Research and Development, Hans Dieter Pötsch – Finance and
Controlling, Dr. h.c. Leif Östling – Commercial Vehicles (until February 2015)
Andreas Renschler – Commercial Vehicles (since February 1, 2015)
Matthias Müller – Chairman of Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG (since March 1, 2015)

	S H A R E H O L D E R S T R U C T U R E AT D E C E M B E R 31 , 2 01 4

	G R O U P K E Y F I G U R E S

in % of voting capital
German institutional
investors 2.1

Volume data

Porsche Automobil
Holding SE 31.5

2014

2013

Private shareholders/
Others 12.3

Vehicle sales (thousand units)

10,217

9,728

Vehicle production (thousand units)

10,213

9,728

State of Lower
Saxony 12.4

Employees at Dec. 31 (thousands)

593

573

Proportion of female employees in %

15.7

15.5

Qatar Holding LLC

15.4

Foreign institutional
investors 26.3

Proportion of apprentices in %1

4.8

4.8

CO2 emissions European new car fleet in g/km2

126

129

CO2 emissions in kg/veh.3
Energy consumption in kWh/veh.3

842

885

2,054

2,204

2014

2013

202,458

197,007

	E M P L OY E E S BY R E G I O N 2 01 4
Europe

Financial data (IFRSs), € million

438,631
Asia

Sales revenue

86,752

The Americas
59,790
Africa 6,330
Australia 1,083

Operating profit

12,697

11,671

Profit before tax

14,794

12,428

Profit after tax

11,068

9,145

1
At the Group in Germany.
Subject to official publication by the European Commission.
3
Production of cars and light commercial vehicles, prior-year figures adjusted.
2

3

INTRODUCTION

OUR BRANDS

On the Sustainability Report microsite you will find portraits of all the Group brands with a brief description of their commitment to
sustainability and links to the brand websites: sustainability-report2014.­volks­w a­g enag.com

4

PORTR AIT OF THE GROUP

BR AND AND MODEL OVERVIEW

M A P O F P R O D U C T I O N L O C AT I O N S

­V OLKS­W A­G EN XL1 •

AUDI A3 SPORTBACK E-TRON •

SEAT LEON ST ECOMOTIVE

ŠKODA FABIA •

BENTLEY CONTINENTAL GT V8 •

BUGAT TI VEYRON •

L A MBORGHINI AVENTADOR •

PORSCHE PANA MER A S E-HYBRID •

DUC ATI HYPER MOTARD

­V OLKS­W A­G EN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES

SC ANIA R580

M AN LION’S CIT Y GL CNG

C ADDY ECOFUEL •

5

INTRODUCTION

GROUP PRODUCTION
­L OCATIONS
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group operates 118 production locations in 20 European countries and eleven
countries in the Americas, Asia and Africa. In the regions in which we are active, we aim to be an
attractive employer, a respected business partner and a good corporate citizen.

NORTH AMERICA
Chattanooga (USA), VW
Puebla (MX), VW
Querétaro (MX), MAN
Silao (MX), VW

The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s production network comprised 118 production locations at the end of the reporting year. This figure is
­based on a revised and harmonized method of counting locations,
with the increase being largely accounted for by the commercial
­vehicle sector. At the end of 2014 the production network included a
total of 69 passenger car, commercial vehicle and motorcycle production locations, as well as 49 locations manufacturing engines,
transmissions and components. In November 2014, the Group’s
­latest production location in China – a transmissions plant – opened
in Tianjin. The location meets the highest standards in terms of
both quality and environmental protection and is designed to manufacture energy-efficient transmissions. By 2019 this will generate
some 5,500 jobs in the region. All over the world, ­Volks­wa­gen stands
for eco-friendly mobility and production, as well as sustainable
growth, based on state-of-the-art production processes and the
­systematic reduction of energy consumption and emissions. A list
of location certifications is available on the Internet:
36.

SOUTH AMERICA
Anchieta (BR), VW
Córdoba (AR), VW
Pacheco (AR), VW
Resende (BR), MAN
São Carlos (BR), VW
São José dos Pinhais (BR), VW
São Paulo (BR), SCANIA
Taubaté (BR), VW
Tucumán (AR), SCANIA

6

PORTR AIT OF THE GROUP

BR AND AND MODEL OVERVIEW

M A P O F P R O D U C T I O N L O C AT I O N S

EUROPE

Dresden (D), VW

Lahti (FI), SCANIA

Palmela (PT), VW

Słupsk (PL), SCANIA

Angers (F), SCANIA

Emden (D), VW

Leipzig (D), PORSCHE

Pamplona (ES), VW

Södertälje (SE), SCANIA

Ankara (TR), MAN

Frederikshavn (DK), MAN

Luleå (SE), SCANIA

Plauen (D), MAN

St. Petersburg ( RUS), MAN,

Augsburg (D), MAN

Glogów (PL), VW

Martin (SK), VW

Polkowice (PL), VW

Barcelona (ES), SEAT

Györ ( HUN ), AUDI

Martorell (ES), SEAT

Poznań (PL),

Berlin (D), MAN

Hamburg (D), MAN

Meppel (NL), SCANIA

V
 W COMMERCIAL

Steyr (A), MAN

Borgo Panigale (I), DUCATI

Hanover (D),

Mladá Boleslav (CZ), ŠKODA

VEHICLES, MAN

Stuttgart (D), PORSCHE

SCANIA

Starachowice (PL), MAN

Bratislava (SK), VW

V
 W COMMERCIAL

Molsheim (F), BUGATTI

Prat (ES), SEAT

Velká Bíteš (CZ), MAN

Braunschweig (D), VW

VEHICLES, MAN

Munich (D), MAN

Rheine (D), MAN

Vrachlabí (CZ), ŠKODA

Brussels (B), AUDI

Ingolstadt (D), AUDI

Neckarsulm (D), AUDI

Saint-Nazaire (F), MAN

Winterthur (CH), MAN

Chemnitz (D), VW

Kaluga ( RUS), VW

Nuremberg (D), MAN

Salzgitter (D), VW, MAN

Wolfsburg (D), VW

Copenhagen (DK), MAN

Kassel (D), VW

Oberhausen (D), MAN

Sant’Agata Bolognese (I),

Zurich (CH), MAN

Crewe (UK), BENTLEY

Kraków (PL), MAN

Oskarshamn (SE), SCANIA

Deggendorf (D), MAN

Kvasiny (CZ), ŠKODA

Osnabrück (D), VW

LAMBORGHINI

Sarajevo (BA), VW

Zwickau (D), VW
Zwolle (NL), SCANIA

ASIA
Amphur Pluakdaeng Rayong (TH), DUCATI
Anting/Shanghai (CN), VW
Aurangabad (IN), ŠKODA, MAN
Bang Pakong (TH), SCANIA
Busan (KR), SCANIA
Changchun (CN), VW
Changzhou (CN), MAN
Chengdu (CN), VW
Dalian (CN), VW
Foshan (CN), VW
Jiading/Shanghai (CN), VW
Kuala Lumpur (MY), SCANIA
Loutang/Shanghai (CN), VW
Nanjing (CN), VW
Narasapura (IN), SCANIA
Ningbo (CN), VW
Ping Chen City (TW), SCANIA
Pithampur (IN), MAN
Pune (IN), VW
Shanghai (CN), MAN
Tianjin (CN), VW
Urumqui (CN), VW
Yizheng (CN), VW

AFRICA
Johannesburg ( RSA), SCANIA
Olifantsfontein ( RSA), MAN
Pinetown ( RSA), MAN
Uitenhage ( RSA), VW

7

STR ATEGY
CO NTE NT S
12

Essay Prof. Dr. Martin Winterkorn

14

Our Approach

20

Sustainable Management

22

Risk Management

23

Stakeholder Management

­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROUP VEHICLE SALES BY REGION
2014, in thousand units

4,430

879
NORTH AMERICA
(2013: units 901 k)

E U RO P E/
OTHER MARKETS
(2013: units 4,209 k)

4,114
A S I A - PAC I F I C
(2013: units 3,632 k)

794
SOUTH AMERICA
(2013: units 987 k)

GROUP SALES
REVENUE GROWTH
2014, in %

INCREASE IN
GROUP WORKFORCE
2014, in %

REDUCTION IN
­E NVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
FROM GROUP
PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
2014, in %

+ 2.8

+ 3.5

19.3

(2013: + 2.2%)

(2013: + 4.2%)

(2013: 12.5%)

S T R AT E G Y

Essay

HOW C A N W E
SH A PE A CH A NGI NG
WOR L D?
Our world is changing at a breathtaking pace. Globali­
zation, new technologies and the Internet are the driv­
ing forces behind this change. Digitization is revo­
lutionizing our lives in the same radical way as the
Industrial Revolution did 200 years ago. Computers,
smartphones and robots are redefining how we com­
municate, shop and spend our free time, and what our
day-to-day life at the office and in the factory looks like.
Digitization is, of course, also changing the way we
shape our mobility.

a­ lmost doubled, to over €200 billion. Our operating
profit has more than doubled. The number of produc­
tion locations has risen from 48 to 118. And since 2007
we have added more than 180 models to our range. In
sum, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group has moved into new di­
mensions.
As I see it, our success is also founded in our ongoing
willingness to regularly call our own approaches into
question and then break new ground. In this way we
have learned that our business is no longer just about
technical aspects like horsepower and torque. We have
learned that sustainability, environmental protection
and social responsibility can be powerful value drivers.
And we have learned to love electric drive – not just be­
cause it is so efficient, but also because it makes driving
so much fun.

“Urbani zation mean s a
need for intelligent new
tran sportation concepts.”

For current proof that today’s business models won’t au­
tomatically meet the needs of tomorrow’s world, consid­
er digitization. Digital networking is radically chang­
ing not only our vehicles, our plants and our employees’
jobs but also our relationships with our customers. But
we are ready for this change. In fact, our ambition is to
be the engine that drives this change, and now we are
stepping up the pace again. We are bringing the digital
world to our vehicles and connecting in-vehicle sensors
with our data centers. This way our vehicle fleet will be­
come an intelligent swarm, providing us with a spring­
board from which to launch new mobility services.
­Real-time data is also needed for partially automated
driving and intelligent traffic management in city
centers or on motorways. Our factories too are in line
for the next major automation step change. Fully net­
worked manufacturing in line with Industry 4.0 is
­beginning to take shape. Machines are relieving our
employees of monotonous, non-ergonomic tasks and
boosting productivity. Robots are moving out of their
protective cages and will work side by side or even hand
in hand with people in the future. And in the sales sec­
tor the Internet has become the most important show­
room. Now the focus is on seamlessly connecting the

The car has entered a new era: the shift in society’s val­
ues and strict CO 2 laws around the world are the forces
behind a trend towards increasingly economical drive
systems, electric mobility, lightweight design and
­energy-efficient factories. Urbanization means a need
for intelligent new transportation concepts. Constant
growth in computing power, fast data networks and
cheap memory are helping to keep people “always on”.
Cars are becoming computers on wheels: engine and
chassis management, driver assistance systems, nav­
igation, communications, infotainment systems and
­automated driving are all developing at high speed.
But it’s not just the business environment that has un­
dergone far-reaching transformation over the past few
years: ­Volks­wa­gen itself has changed fundamentally
as well. Just compare the Group today with what it was
in 2007: the number of brands has increased from
eight to twelve and our workforce too has shown rapid
growth. We now employ a quarter of a million more
people than we did in 2007. Our sales revenue has
12

S T R AT E G Y

Essay

“We can and must
bring the dig ital
and the mobile worlds
together.”
Above all, new trends and new technologies ultimately
mean one thing: new business opportunities. But com­
petition for future mobility is ruthless and success is
never guaranteed, not least because the business envi­
ronment in which we operate is tougher than ever. Con­
sequently, politicians too need to be more fully aware of
the scale of the challenges we face. Because the politi­
cal framework is always a key factor in determining suc­
cess or failure.

virtual, digital world with the real one. Using big data
intelligently also allows us to develop new software
solutions and service offerings for cars that give our
customers genuine added value and open up additional
business opportunities for our Company.

“Our ambition is to be
the ­e ng ine that’s driving
change.”

Despite all the challenges, I am convinced that we can
and must bring the digital and the mobile worlds to­
gether. That is why digitization is one of the major com­
ponents of our Group-wide “Future Tracks” program,
which we launched in spring 2014.

So is this a brave new digital automotive world? There
are, of course, fundamental questions that still need to
be answered: will the factories of tomorrow be empty of
people? Is the traffic infrastructure prepared for the
opportunities the digital world has to offer? And how
can we protect customer data from misuse? We are
aware of our responsibilities and are addressing all of
these issues carefully. At the same time, I urge you to
look not just at the risks, but more particularly at the
­opportunities that digitization presents. Not only will
driving become more comfortable and safer for people;
at the same time, we will also reduce the impact on the
environment through optimum utilization of our re­
sources. Exciting opportunities for new technologies
and business ideas are emerging for industry, and
these can lead to growth and prosperity.

On our road to the new digital world of mobility, there is
one thing we cannot afford to neglect, and that is to en­
sure that people – our customers, partners and employ­
ees – can travel with us. Focus, safety and security, and
trust – these values are and will remain the foundation
for technological progress.

Prof. Dr. Martin Winterkorn
Chairman of the Board of Management of ­Volks­w a­gen AG

13

S T R AT E G Y

FOCUSING ON THE
­E SSENTIALS.
We aim to be the world’s most successful, fascinating and sustainable automobile manufacturer.
This is the target we set ourselves for 2018, and we have already achieved some of our aims.
In a world that is undergoing ever more radical changes, however, targets can never be more than
­milestones: reach them and they are already out of date. With the advent of digitization, the
­industry and the Group are on the cusp of a new era – one we aim to play a major role in shaping.

generation has. In view of digitization, we will in future be faced
with new issues in the field of sustainability and responsibility –
for example, what we do with our customers’ data, how we ensure
that they are secure and protected at all times, and what legal and
ethical problems are raised by automated driving. This also means
that to some extent we need to reconsider and redefine the key
­a spects of our activities.

O U R A PPROACH
For the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group, sustainability means that we conduct
our business activities on a responsible and long-term basis and do
not seek short-term success at the expense of others. Our intention
is that everyone should profit from our growth – our customers and
investors, society and, of course, our employees. In this way, good
jobs and careful treatment of resources and the environment form
the basis for generating lasting values. This applies on all continents and in all regions and throughout the entire value chain. In
future, revisiting and implementing this approach in the light of
digitization – and responsibly handling the digitization process
itself – will be a key factor shaping the strategic issues of our sustainability management.
To ensure consistent and focused pursuit of our objectives, we aim
to concentrate on essentials (see pages 16 – 18). The challenges are
immense. They range from climate change, resource availability
and demographic developments, through far-reaching changes in
society’s values, to digitization, rapid urbanization and increasing
social imbalances.
As one of the world’s largest industrial corporations, our Group
with its twelve strong brands bears a special social responsibility
and we intend to put our creative powers to good use for the benefit
of people and the environment. Every year the ­Volks­wa­gen Group
produces more than 10 million vehicles. This gives rise to positive
effects such as new jobs, regional prosperity and individual opportunities for participation, but also to emissions and resource consumption. Our most important tasks, as we see it, are therefore to
ensure responsible and efficient production, and to make mobility
not only as safe, convenient and environmentally compatible as
possible, but at the same time affordable for large numbers of
people. After all, individual mobility remains a basic human need,
and fulfilling this need is the central corporate objective of our
Group.
Through pioneering technologies and social competence we are
making our contribution to a sustainable form of development that
will give future generations the same opportunities as the present

VV Twelve brands, each with its own unique
character, sharing a common goal:
­m obility – for everyone, everywhere.
Our Sustainability Strategy
We know that growth can only take place hand in hand with
­responsibility and environmental protection – more than that,
in fact: in recent years these factors have become genuine value
­d rivers. That is why everything we do in the interests of sustainability also serves to achieve our corporate objectives – in an
­accompanying, promoting and supporting capacity. The key
­a spects of our sustainability objectives and activities, which are
subject to Group-wide control, are structured under the three
headings used in this report – Economy, People and Environment. This reflects not only our Group-wide interpretation of
sustainability that can be applied in all regions around the
world, but also our conviction that stable, long-term business
activity based on ethical criteria is a precondition for acting in
an environment-friendly way and playing a responsible part in
shaping the future of people within the Group and in society at
large.
With almost 600,000 employees and 118 production locations
on four continents, we are especially concerned to do this consistently worldwide. Our approach: to transfer tried-and-tested
ideas – from brand to brand, from region to region. There are
already ­numerous examples of how this works – from the modular
14

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

round. This ensures that the important decisions for production,
purchasing and sales structures are taken with a ten-year timeline. Another instrument for identifying challenges and expectations and for dealing with changing background conditions is the
stakeholder dialogue, which we cultivate at both Group and market level (see pages 23 – 27).

transverse matrix, via the dual vocational education and training system and in-service training opportunities that we bring to
the various regions, to mobility services, concepts for road safety
and social responsibility, and biodiversity projects. In this way
we turn our size and growth to good advantage and exercise our
responsibility for our employees, the environment and society.

Managing Challenges and Trends

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

GRI G4-18

VV Growth with responsibility for
­employees, environment and society

Even if the major challenges are known and can be assessed, the
resulting demands on the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group are nevertheless
subject to increasingly rapid change and have to be reassessed at
regular intervals and readjusted in our strategic planning. Within
the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group we therefore have several specialized functions engaged in observing megatrends in society, analyzing the
overall economic backdrop, tracking emerging customer trends
and continuous benchmarking against the competition. The results are brought together in a process known as the planning

In summer 2014, based on these observations and derived from
the major challenges, we identified for the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group 16
areas in which we can and must make a special contribution –
­because these are fields where we have a significant impact or
where we are particularly well placed to exert influence, and
where consequently a great deal is also expected of us.
5

V V O R I G I N O F T H E AC T I O N A R E A S F O R O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y

OR IGI N OF TH E ACTION AR EAS FOR OU R SUSTAI NAB I LITY STR ATEGY

Climate change

Environmental impacts

Demographic change

Globalization

Digitization

Resource availability

Water availability

Market shifts

Increasing regulation

Economic uncertainty

Mobility

Energy systems

Road safety

Urbanization

Sustainability

Noise

Health

Social uncertainty

Biodiversity

Human rights

­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROU P ’S KEY ACTION AR EAS

Customer satisfaction

Quality

Stability and profitability

Compliance, risk management, corporate governance

Supplier relationships

Attractiveness as an
­employer

Participation

Training

Corporate responsibility

Intelligent mobility and
­networking

Health

Environmentally friendly
products/ electrification

Climate and environmental
protection

Diversity and equality

Resource conservation
across the lifecycle

Vehicle safety

15

S T R AT E G Y

The ­Volks­w a­gen Group is one of the leading suppliers of alternative drive systems. With 1,354 units sold by the end of 2014, the best-selling electric car to
date is the e-up!•.

GRI G4-18, G4-25, G4-26
In 2014, two mutually independent developments played a role in
a detailed analysis of the topics of material importance to the
­Volks­wa­gen Group. One particular issue was the question of the
Group’s strategy for the period after 2018, which has sparked lively
discussions. Important sustainability topics that impact on the
Company’s performance are covered by risk management (see
page 22). The findings of the discussions were also taken into
­account when defining the key action areas. In addition, there
were the GRI ’s new requirements (GRI -G4), which pay greater
­attention to the process of materiality analysis. In practice, our
­approach to the analysis and identification of significant issues
was as follows:

Materiality Analysis

2. To obtain an additional assessment of the importance of these
action areas for the Company, we conducted an online analysis of international media for the period September 2013 to
August 2014. This revealed that eco-friendly products in the
context of the automotive industry, and especially in connection with the ­Volks­wa­gen Group, were by far the most widely
discussed issues, followed by intelligent mobility, customer
satisfaction, quality and employment.
3. On the basis of the assessments obtained in the first two steps,
the action areas were then discussed and defined in two further steps. The following served as our central criteria: stakeholder expectations, the potential contribution to the Group’s
strategic objectives, and the difference between these two
­criteria. This analysis was first performed in the Group CSR
Meeting with representatives of the brands and regions, and
finally in the Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering Group.
4. Detailed discussions in each case led to the realization that in
view of the Group’s size, its potential influence and the associated responsibility, all the issues in the GRI list of sustainability
aspects can and must be regarded as “significant” for the
­Volks­wa­gen Group.

1. From global challenges we derived a list of 16 central action
­a reas in which we need to provide answers. We did this on the
basis of the following sources: external studies, industry analyses and our brands’ stakeholder surveys, and also internal
guidelines such as the Strategy 2018, the Group Environmental Strategy, or key factors identified by the Corporate Strategy
Group.
16

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

V V M AT E R I A L I T Y A N A LY S I S: P R O C E D U R E I N T H E V
­ O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

GRI G4-18, G4-20

Stakeholder dialogues and surveys for Group and
brands, market research findings, trend radar,
environmental radar, studies and analyses

GROUP DEPARTMENTS AND BODIES
INVOLVED:

Risk Management
Market Research
Global CSR Meeting
Strategy and Future Group
Group CSR & Sustainability
­Steering Group

FRAMEWORK REQUIREMENTS
AND OWN STANDARDS:

GRI, AA1000, Global Compact, ILO,
OECD,
Group Environmental Principles,
Social Charter etc.

Analysis & comparison

CSR & Sustainability Steering Group

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P ’ S K E Y AC T I O N A R E A S

PEOPLE

Attractiveness as an
employer

NM

OM
ON

RO

Supplier
­r elationships

Intelligent
­m obility and
networking
Vehicle
safety

MOST SUSTAI NAB LE
AUTOMOTIVE
COMPANY
I N TH E WOR LD

Climate and
­environmental
protection

T

Health

EN

EC

VI

Compliance, risk
­management, corporate
governance

Quality

Environmentally
friendly products/
electrification

Corporate
responsibility

Diversity and
equality

Customer
­s atisfaction
Stability and
­p rofitability

Training

EN

Y

Participation

Resource
­conservation across
the lifecycle

than ­resource conservation throughout the vehicle life cycle – or
vice versa. As we understand it, sustainable development means
taking equal account of economic, environmental and social interests and maintaining an appropriate balance between them. In
other words, the 16 action areas that apply across the Group stand
side by side, even if current developments place a greater shortor m
­ edium-term focus on individual topics. In the interests of
the ­f uture success of our business, taking a long-term view is of
decisive importance for us.

This representation of the 16 central action areas, broken down
into the three dimensions Economy, People and Environment, is
intended to illustrate the aspects that we focus on in order to
­become the world’s most sustainable automaker. In view of our
broad international standing, we have deliberately avoided any
prioritization of our action areas. On the one hand, the relevance
of the individual areas may vary depending on the region; on the
other hand, we do not want to judge, for example, whether the
health of nearly 600,000 employees worldwide is more important

17

S T R AT E G Y

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P ’ S K E Y AC T I O N A R E A S

Action Areas

GRI G4-19, G4-20, G4-21

Corresponding GRI aspects

page

Economy
Stability and profitability

Economic Performance

34, 135

Quality

Customer Health and Safety

35, 134

Vehicle safety

Customer Health and Safety

38 – 39, 135

Customer satisfaction

Product and Service Labeling, Customer Privacy

Supplier relationships

Procurement Practices, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Assessment for
­L abor Practices, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or
Compulsory Labor, Supplier Human Rights Assessment, Supplier Assessment for Impacts
on Society

Compliance, risk management, corporate
­governance

Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Grievance Mechanisms (Labor Practices, Environmental, Human Rights and Impacts on Society), Investment, Non-discrimination, Freedom of
Association and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Assessment,
Anti-corruption, Anti-competitive Behavior, Compliance (Product Responsibility, Society,
­Environment), Marketing Communications, Public Policy, Security Practices

39, 134
42 – 46, 135

22 – 23, 46 – 49,
135

People
Attractiveness as an employer

Employment, Market Presence

56 – 57, 136

Training

Training and Education

57 – 62, 136

Participation

Employment, Equal Remuneration for Women and Men, Market Presence, Labor/Management Relations

62 – 66, 136

Health

Occupational Health and Safety

66 – 69, 136

Diversity and equality

Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Non-discrimination

69 – 72, 136

Corporate responsibility

Indirect Economic Impacts, Local Communities, Indigenous Rights

73 – 75, 136

Environment
Resource conservation across the lifecycle

Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Products and Services, Overall

Environmentally friendly products/
electrification

Energy, Emissions, Products and Services, Overall

Climate and environmental protection

Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Transport, Overall

Intelligent mobility and networking

Products and Services, Customer Privacy

18

86, 100 – 107,
137
86, 94 – 100, 137
90 – 93,
106 – 107, 137
86, 110, 137

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

01

02

03

04

05

06

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

The extended range of alternative drives is an integral component of the CO 2 prevention strategy of the ­Volks­w a­gen Group.
01: Golf GTE • (­Volks­w a­gen), 02: Panamera S E-Hybrid• (Porsche), 03: Mii Ecofuel• (SEAT ), 04: A3 Sportback e-tron• (Audi), 05: Lion’s City GL CNG (MAN ),
06: Caddy EcoFuel• (­Volks­w a­gen Commercial Vehicles).

19

S T R AT E G Y

SU STA I N A B L E M A N AG E M E N T

>> ­Volks­wa­gen Group Code of Conduct: Introduced in 2010, this
applies throughout the Group and provides managers and
The ­Volks­wa­gen Group has made a commitment to sustainabili­employees with a guide to meeting legal and ethical challenges
ty-oriented, transparent and responsible management. The greatin their everyday work.
est challenge to putting this into practice at all levels and in all stag9
es of the value chain is our complexity, with twelve brands, nearly >> Commitment to United Nations Global Compact: In 2002 the
600,000 employees and 118 production locations. In line with the
­ olks­wa­gen Group committed itself to promoting human rights,
V
recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, we
upholding labor standards, protecting the environment and
combatting corruption. In 2013 this commitment was extended
practice Group-wide sustainability coordination and forward-­
to include the CEO Water Mandate, which aims to ensure carelooking risk management and ensure a clear framework for the
­future-oriented handling of environmental issues, responsibility
ful use of water resources.
towards our employees and social engagement by our brands and
in the various regions. The remuneration of the Group Board of We also make sure that our activities are in line with
­Management is geared to the Company’s long-term results.
>> the declarations of the International Labour Organization
(ILO ),
Guidelines and Principles
Voluntary undertakings and principles that apply across the Group >> the guidelines and conventions of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and
form the basis and backbone of our strategic sustainability objectives. These include the following:
>> the international U N pacts on fundamental human rights and
freedoms.
>> ­Volks­wa­gen Group values: Our position is defined by seven values. These are customer focus, top performance, creating value, We have created our own framework for this purpose in the
ability to renew, respect, responsibility and sustainability ­Volks­wa­gen Social Charter, the Charter on Labour Relations and
the Charter on Temporary Work, all of which apply throughout the
(2002).
7
>> ­Volks­wa­gen Model of Sustainable Development: Adopted in Group (see pages 62 – 65). Group-wide environmental protection
2002 to mark the U N World Summit in Johannesburg (South is governed by the Group Environmental Policy and the Group­A frica), this provides a Group-wide framework for sustainable wide environmental principles governing products and production (see page 87).
and responsible action.
8

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y O RG A N I Z AT I O N

­V O L K S ­W A­G E N G R O U P B OA R D ( S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y B OA R D)

G R O U P C S R & S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T E E R I N G G R O U P

OTHER
GROUP STEERING
GROUPS

C S R & S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y O F F I C E

BRANDS
Sustainability Board &
Steering Group

REGIONS

20

M A N AG E M E N T

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

The CSR & Sustainability Coordinators of the brands and regions met in Brussels in September 2014.

at least three seats on the Supervisory Board are to be held by
women, at least two of whom should be representatives of the
shareholders.

VV G RO U P CSR M E E TI N G

To promote dialogue across the Group, set up uniform structures
and learn from one another, the CSR & Sustainability Coordinators
of all brands and regions have met once a year since 2009. The
Group CSR Meeting has thus become an important element in the
Group-wide coordination structure. In 2014 the two-day meeting
was held in Brussels. The agenda included a joint assessment of
­important sustainability issues in preparation for the Materiality
Analysis to be signed off by the Corporate CSR and Sustainability
Steering Group (see pages 16 – 18).

Coordination of Sustainability
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group has established a clear structure for coordinating CSR and sustainability. The top sustainability body is the
Group Board of Management, referred to here as the Sustainability Board. At least twice a year the Sustainability Board is informed
by the Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering Group about topics
relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering Group includes top managers
from central Group business areas, members of the Group Works
Council and representatives of the brands and regions. It meets
four times a year, decides on the strategic sustainability goals and
signs off the Sustainability Report.
The Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering Group is supported
by the CSR & Sustainability Office, which has coordinated all
­sustainability-relevant activities within the Group and the brands
since 2006. Its remit also includes the stakeholder dialogue conducted at Group level, including relations with sustainability-­
oriented analysts and investors. There are also several dedicated
project teams, each working at crossfunctional level on tasks such
as sustainability reporting or sustainability in supplier relations.
These coordination and working structures have, with a few exceptions, also been established within the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s brands
and are constantly being expanded. Group-wide sustainability
­reporting underwent further structuring and extension in 2014,
once the data for the 2013 Group Sustainability Report had been
captured for the first time in an IT -based information system.

Functions and Composition of the Management Bodies
The Group Board of Management has nine members. Every
member is responsible for one or more functions, and some
members also have responsibility for a region. The Group Board
of Management is supported in its work by the boards and management teams of the brands and regions, and of the other Group
companies and affiliated companies. In accordance with the
German Co-determination Act the Supervisory Board, which
appoints, oversees and advises the Board of Management, is
made up of equal numbers of representatives of the shareholders and representatives of the employees. The Supervisory
Board of the ­Volks­w a­gen Group has a total of 20 members, three
of whom are women. Clear ideas, including diversity targets,
have been formulated for the composition of the Supervisory
Board. For example, at least three seats should be held by individuals of a particularly international character. In addition,

21

S T R AT E G Y

Committee receives regular reports on the effectiveness of the
RMS/ ICS .
As an integral part of our structures and procedures, our RMS is
embedded in the day-to-day business processes of the V
­ olks­wa­gen
Group. It pursues the “Three Lines of Defense” approach:

V V R E M U N E R AT I O N O F T H E B OA R D O F M A N AG E M E N T

The remuneration of the Group Board of Management consists of a
fixed and a variable component. The variable component is made
up of a bonus based on the performance of the business in the
preceding two years, and (since 2010) a long-term incentive (LTI )
which is based on a consideration of the preceding four financial
years. Thus both elements of the variable component are based on
multi-year assessment criteria and take account of both favorable
10
and unfavorable developments.

>> The first line is the essential task of the divisions, companies and
brands. Thanks to reports during the year via the paths documented above, the Board has an overall picture of the current
risk situation at all times. The minimum requirements for the
RMS / ICS are laid down in a single guidance document for the
entire Group. This also includes a process for timely notification
of significant risks.
>> The second line is the Group Governance, Risk & Compliance
(GRC ) department. This sets standards for the RMS / ICS and
­coordinates the annual GRC standard process. In this process,
the brands, major companies and individual functions identify
risks and verify the effectiveness of the RMS / ICS . This serves as
a basis for updating the overall picture of the potential risk situation and assessing the effectiveness of the system. The Group
Board of Management receives a report on significant risks,
which are also defined in terms of quantitative and qualitative
assessment criteria and a probability rating.
>> The third line is Group Internal Audit, which makes regular
checks on the structure and implementation of the RMS as part
of its independent audit activities.

Coordination of Environmental, Personnel and
Social Engagement Issues
In 2011 the ­Volks­wa­gen Group took an important decision for the
ecological restructuring of the Group by appointing a Group Chief
Officer for the Environment, Energy and New Business Areas.
The Environmental Strategy was approved by the Group Board of
Management at the end of 2013 (see pages 86 – 87). Since then,
work has been in progress on implementing it within the Group
and the individual brands. The Group Environmental Conference, at which the environmental officers of the brands and
­regions meet regularly, has been in place since as long ago as
1998. The last meeting was held in 2012, and the next will be in
2015. Through the Corporate Environment and Energy Steering
Group, which also reports to the Sustainability Board, the coordination of environmental issues follows the structure described
above for CSR & Sustainability.
The framework for coordination of employee responsibility is
­defined by the Corporate Personnel Management department
and implemented locally. In 2013 a personnel management
strategy to support the Group goals for 2018 was adopted (see
page 56). Social engagement falls largely within the responsibility of the brands, companies and locations. To ensure a certain standardization worldwide, the Group has defined central
principles (see pages 73 – 75).

VV Being aware of our stakeholders’
expectations is an important
precondition for business success.
Significant Risks
The biggest risks – i.e. risks with a high probability of occurrence
and involving a large financial loss – may arise from adverse sales
and market trends for vehicles and genuine parts, development
and creation of products not suited to demand, and potential quality problems.
Risks that could impact on the financial result of the V
­ olks­wa­gen
Group also include general environmental risks and climate
change risks. Under the RMS these are identified, assessed and
controlled by the Group’s divisions and companies. Examples of
such risks include the following:

R I S K M A N AG E M E N T
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s responsible and forward-looking approach to risks is supported by a comprehensive risk management and internal control system ( RMS/ ICS). This is based on
the internationally recognized COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission). We pursue a holistic, integrating
approach that combines the risk management system, internal
control system and compliance management system in a single
Governance, Risk & Compliance strategy. As a result, the RMS/
ICS ensures full coverage of all potential risk areas. The central
body responsible is the Group Board of Management, which
is informed about risks and opportunities in connection with
a wide variety of processes. The Supervisory Board’s Audit

>> Extreme weather situations, storms or floods leading to failure
of information and communication technology, supplier failure
with production standstill or general production downtime at
one of our more than 100 production locations worldwide.
>> The differences in CO2 regulations between the major volume
­markets, which involve a variety of sanction mechanisms. Emission r­ equirements for vehicle taxation also play an important role
here.

22

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

V V “ T H R E E L I N E S O F D E F E N S E ” A P P R OAC H

S U P E R V I S O RY B OA R D

B OA R D O F M A N AG E M E N T

FIRST LEVEL

THIRD LEVEL

S E CO N D L E V E L

Group GRC
Companies and
business units
Sy s t e m a t i c r i s k
inventor y

O P E R AT I O N A L R E P O R T S
FROM RISK
M A N AG E M E N T

Ef fectiveness
R M S/ I C S p r o c e s s

CO O R D I N AT I O N R M S/ I C S P R O C E S S
A N D G R C A N N UA L R E P O R T

AU D I T A N D R E P O R T
O N R M S/ I C S

Stakeholder Relations at Group Level

>> Alongside the risks described, the development of new drive
technologies (hybrid and electric) may result in advantages compared with our competitors. In view of a broad change in public
awareness based on the depletion of fossil resources and a growing desire to protect the environment, these technologies promote the Group’s sales opportunities.

Direct contact with stakeholders, especially employees, partners
and customers, is cultivated above all by the brands. At Group level
we seek to bundle these processes and take an overarching approach to discussing Group-wide topics. This includes our dialogue with politicians, academia and non-governmental organizations. Our aim is to understand and respond to stakeholders’
expectations and promote appreciation of our positions and actions. In order to achieve this, we strive to continuously intensify
the process of dialogue with our stakeholders. Reflecting these efforts, a broad spectrum of stakeholder groups showed great appreciation of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s early commitment to the European politicians’ target of reducing average passenger car fleet
CO2 emissions to 95 grams per kilometer by 2020.

For more information on economic, political, financial and operational risks, see the Risks and Opportunities section of the Management Report. 11

STA K E H O L D E R M A N AG E M E N T

Compliance
­M a n a g e m e n t
­S y s t e m

Group Internal
Audit

GRI G4-25

Being aware of our stakeholders’ needs and expectations is an
­i mportant precondition for business success. They determine the
development of our sales markets, the various regulatory frameworks and our reputation as a Group. That is why we seek and
maintain a dialogue with our stakeholders, both at Group level
and locally in the regions where we operate. Our stakeholders
­i nclude analysts and investors, employees, customers, neighbors,
suppliers, partners, politicians, public authorities, scientists and
non-governmental organizations – a network of relationships that
grows with our market presence.

23

S T R AT E G Y

VV TH E V
­ O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P ’ S S TA K E H O L D E R S A N D T H E I R E X P E C TAT I O N S

SOC
I
mun E T Y :
ic
L
re l i i p a l i e g i s
gio tie
us
s lat
gr , ne o r
ou ig
Vehicle
ps
sa
,
prote fety,
c tio clim
e mp n,
at at
lo
sup yer, tr
pli p
er

:D
m at o e a l e
e r r s,
r s,
s

e
d v
an
t e i on, r s
a
m
i
Cl
e
ec t
p ro t s t o m
cu

al

RS

at
pr i s fa
cti
of
a l o p i ta bi o n ,
ifi
lity,
p
o
ca
tio r tu nit
i e s,
n, h
:
E
e al t
, m
h
n e t ra p l o
r s d e ye e
, s u n s,
up io
p l i n s,
ers

l

s
er d
o m an u
y eq
C ust
ili t
st a b a n d , q u
it y
on
d i ve r s i p a t i
c
p ar ti
R S ls
N E ci
R T un rt
P A s co s p a
s
rk
w o sin e
bu

­V O L K S­W A­G E N
GROUP

n
eh v ir o
a t i cl e n m e n
tal
is f
s
a c afety,
tio
n

Reso
ur
lifecy ce co
electri cle, e nse
co r
fic
stabi ation -fri
lity
,s
an
d

CA
Sh P I T
a
A
a l y re h o L
st
s a ld
n

es,
ri ti ,
th o
ns
a u i at i o
c
ic
b l sso em i a
p u s, a c a d
o r s, a
hb GO
N

the
oss
acr ducts,
n
o
s,
tio pr
ation
va ndly er rel lity
e pli tabi
i
up rof
p

m e nt a
ro n
nvi s an
d e ss a
,
an ne
e tive ation
p
ac t i c i i o n s
a r l at
re

an

s,

T:
K E k s,
R
rs
A an
M s, b e s t o
r
v
e in
d

See the Internet for a list of stakeholder dialogues in 2014.

GRI G4-21, G4-24, G4-26, G4-27

er

E
M
O t op u
T
s
e
S
C U f l e co n

13

At Group level we particularly cultivate membership of organizations that involve an intensive dialogue on sustainable development issues and contribute to networking with sustainability-­
oriented businesses and our stakeholders. At international level
these primarily include our engagement with the prestigious
World Business Council for Sustainable Development ( W BCSD),
our participation in CSR Europe, a leading European network for
social responsibility, and our work within the network of the U N
Global Compact. We are also an active member of econsense, the
sustainable development forum of German industry, and the
­international initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company”. The
­i nformation we gain from these sources is passed on to the brands
and regions. Details of Group membership of other organizations
can be found on the Internet.
14

VV D I A LO GU E WITH P O L ITI CI A N S

We maintain an ongoing dialogue with politicians to provide information and advice. In this process we not only react, but also take
a proactive stance, offering our own solutions for discussion and
stimulating innovations in the field of social policy. In view of
global warming, regulation of CO2 emissions in the transportation
sector was again the main topic of political stakeholder groups in
numerous countries and regions in 2014. ­Volks­wa­gen committed
itself at an early stage to the emission limit of 95 g CO2/km in the
EU which was set in 2014. In the second half of the reporting year,
we successfully promoted the idea that a post-2020 target should
not be set until it became clear how quickly the market for electric
mobility would take off. In fact the new EU Commission declared
its intention of using 2015 first of all for stakeholder dialogues and
impact assessments. On the trade policy front the free-trade
agreements with the USA (TTIP ) and Canada (CETA ) occupied our
12
attention.

Our dialogue with stakeholders naturally includes taking a critical
look at aspects of our own activities. One example in 2014 came
at the Annual General Meeting, when the question of the company’s role during the military dictatorship in Brazil was raised. We
24

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

V V F O CU S TO P I C

LOBBYING:
PART OF THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS OF HANDLING DIFFERENCES OF OPINION
Lobbying does not enjoy a good reputation, especially in Germany. It is said that lobbyists are used by associations
and businesses to exert influence on political decisions by obscure means, and that they frequently resort to
­dubious methods. The automotive industry in particular is accused of exploiting its economic power and thereby
undermining the democratic process of formulating objectives.

Nobody would deny that lobbyists can stray from the
straight and narrow. Rule-breaking, and corruption in particular, must be punished. On the other hand this general
­rejection of ­lobbying, and the widespread aversion in Germany to the supposed egoism of the stakeholder groups, are
exaggerated and unacceptable – after all, they are based on
pre-democratic ideals.
In a pluralist society it is necessary – and perfectly legitimate
– to represent particular interests vis-à-vis politicians. It is not
only large corporate groups that engage in lobbying – trade
unions, religious groups and environmental associations do so
as well (and sometimes exhibit greater skill in equating their
concerns with the public interest). Ultimately what matters is
that all stakeholder interests are heard and weighed up in the
political process. That is the essence of democracy.
The ­Volks­wa­gen Group has 118 production locations and nearly
600,000 employees worldwide. A company with such a great
responsibility for vocational education and training, employment and regional development, prosperity and quality of life
has to have a fundamental interest in ensuring that political decisions are taken on the basis of objective considerations and
do not place obstacles in the way of future business success.
Politicians have to rely on the expertise of the social and busi-

Dr. Thomas Steg,
­Volks­w a­gen Group General ­
Representative for External Relations
and Government Relations

ness players, on the knowledge and experience of those in the
front line. We at ­Volks­wa­gen assure politicians of full and
open information and reliable and competent advice. We believe in the kind of lobbying that aims to convince people with
better arguments and is prepared to expose itself to public
criticism.
During 2014 we again engaged in a thorough discussion of the
guiding principles of our work as a political stakeholder group,
and signed them off at the beginning of 2015. They are available to everyone on the Internet, and you are welcome to comment on them.
15, 16

pursued a policy of open communication and are working to come
to terms with this chapter of the company’s history. At the opening
of the São Paulo International Motor Show, Greenpeace do Brasil
called upon V
­ olks­wa­gen and other major manufacturers to offer
more efficient vehicles. In response, we gave Greenpeace a detailed explanation of our product strategy. As a basic principle, our
answers to inquiries are prompt and open. In 2014, for example,
we provided LobbyControl with a statement on our activities and
answered a question from Greenpeace about the German energy
revolution or “Energiewende”.
To ensure a systematic approach to stakeholder management
within the Group, in 2014 we introduced an I T -based issue and
stakeholder module. This will help to assess the importance of
­i ndividual stakeholder groups and link this evaluation with the
­a ssessment of issues. It thus forms the basis for a stakeholder-­
25

oriented issues management system which supports the Group’s
reputation and ensures closer coordination of the brands’ stakeholder activities.

Stakeholder Panel and Evaluation
In cooperation with the Institute for Market, Environment and
­Society (imug) we established a stakeholder panel which has followed our activities, especially our environmental and sustainability activities, for the past 18 years and produces a critical commentary every year. During the past year this procedure, which
had involved detailed interviews with 33 representatives of various stakeholder groups, was extended to take in a further 18 international stakeholder representatives. This paved the way for
interesting comparisons and improved our understanding of
­expectations outside the European region. The purpose of this

S T R AT E G Y

At the second Audi Stakeholder Forum in Berlin in 2014 the focus was on future mobility.

evaluation is to constantly reassess and improve the sustainability
report, its impact and its benefits for the target groups. Furthermore, stakeholders’ assessments often provide an indication of
weaknesses in our Group-wide sustainability coordination. The
2013 Group Sustainability Report was generally very well received,
though the i­ nternational stakeholder representatives rated it better than the German ones.

and V
­ olks­wa­gen Financial Services brands have also conducted
extensive and detailed stakeholder surveys, usually online, which
have yielded valuable findings for identifying issues of importance
for the Group as a whole. All in all, the surveys covered some
126,000 stakeholder respondents, though it should be noted that
120,000 of these were due to the ­Volks­wa­gen brand’s customer
survey. In the meantime the brands have largely moved on to more
individual and differentiated forms of stakeholder dialogue, with
the aim of acquiring more detailed information about individual
issues or about the expectations of specific stakeholder groups.

V V A S S E S S M E N T O F T H E 2 013 G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T

The assessment of the 2013 Group Sustainability Report by the
­extended stakeholder panel proved positive. The main suggestions
for improvement included: providing more opportunities for dialogue, taking a more open approach to critical issues, describing
conflicts of objectives, and formulating clearer and more far-reaching objectives. At a meeting on November 20, 2014, representatives
of the stakeholder panel stressed the need to focus on important
topics, identify dilemmas and outline a perspective running beyond
the year 2018. The present report takes up these suggestions with
the comprehensive materiality analysis (pages 16 – 18), the statement on special focus topics (pages 25, 41, 90) and a full account of
future challenges and strategic guidelines (pages 12 – 13, 32 – 33,
54 – 55 and 84 – 85). A summary of the extended stakeholder panel’s assessment of the 2013 Group Sustainability Report is available
17
on the Internet.

VV B R A N D D I A LO GU ES A N D F O RUM S

In October 2014 Audi held its second stakeholder forum: some 120
participants met in Berlin to discuss future mobility and the role
that digital data will play in this context. The focus was on issues
arising from networking of vehicles with each other, with the infrastructure and with the driver. Core findings from the forum are fed
into the development of Audi’s technologies of the future. Audi also
offers its employees the opportunity to discuss corporate responsibility and sustainability with representatives of business, academia,
politics and NGOs: the series of lectures on “Responsibility Perspectives” looks into future issues, business and social developments
and the associated challenges.
Early in 2014, MAN invited students of the master’s course in “Sustainable Marketing & Leadership” at the Fresenius University in
­Munich to take part in a joint discussion to assess MAN ’s Corporate
Responsibility Strategy and goals, and its performance from the
point of view of future managers. The findings resulted in a statement which contained both praise and criticism and was published
as the Challenger Statement in the 2014 MAN CR Report.

Stakeholder Dialogue at Brand and Company Level
Once a year we use the “Stimmungsbarometer”, our standardized
Group-wide employee opinion survey, to measure employee satisfaction. In recent years the Audi, M A N , Porsche, SE AT, ­­Volks­wa­gen
26

OUR APPROACH

SUSTAINABLE M ANAGEMENT

RISK M ANAGEMENT

STAKEHOLDER M ANAGEMENT

For the past 16 years ­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles has been
­engaged in a dialogue with its neighbors at the Hanover location in
Germany, because the factory is situated close to residential areas.
For some years now, similar discussions have also been taking place
at our Poznań location in Poland. Meetings are held every six
months to discuss stakeholders’ concerns and misgivings with a
view to finding joint solutions. These are attended not only by local
residents, but also by representatives of local authorities, official
bodies and religious groups.

dialogue and project partnership with NABU , which in its fifteenth
year can itself claim to be sustainable, has become a model of
cross-sectoral cooperation between companies and NGOs. We use
a bundle of indicators to measure its success, for example the
­willingness of politicians and the public to participate, the market
response to the eco-leasing program, the satisfaction expressed by
NABU , and their readiness to put in a good word for us vis-à-vis
third parties. We provide extensive information – not least online –
on the progress of the projects. A blog invites committed members
of the public to engage in dialogue.

Cooperation for Sustainability

For more information in German, see:
http://www.mobil-fuer-mensch-und-natur.de

Both the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group and the individual brands have long
been engaged in close cooperation with official bodies, local
­authorities, and organizations representing environmental and
social concerns. This is prompted by a desire not only to play a
supportive role in society, but also to find out more about external
perspectives of the Group’s activities. In 2014, in addition to its
long-standing partnership with Naturschutzbund Deutschland
( NA BU ), the ­Volks­wa­gen Group entered into cooperation with
the German Red Cross. This was preceded by a phase of building
mutual trust and comparing expectations. This cooperation
­began on a project-specific basis in the field of rescue services in
Germany and innovations in first aid training. The Group’s
­established cooperation partners also include GIZ (Deutsche
Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH), SOS
Kinderdorf (M A N ), and “My Finance Coach” to promote general
financial education (­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services).

Reporting und Issues Management
The greater the significance of sustainability aspects for the alignment of the Group’s strategy, the more important assessment,
management and reporting of the topics becomes. Internal and
external sustainability reporting plays an important part in the
Group’s strategic development – because it facilitates coordination
by creating internal transparency and bundling issues. In relations
with the various external stakeholder groups, sustainability reports
create the basis for dialogue, communication and trust. They also
comply with politicians’ growing demands for transparency.
The Audi, M A N , Porsche, Scania and ŠKODA brands prepare their
own sustainability reports following the guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI ). The other companies provide target
group-oriented information on the topic. In 2014 a Group guideline was drawn up to regulate the form and standard of reporting
for the Group Sustainability Report, the brands’ sustainability reports and other forms of sustainability reporting, and also the organizational structure and the supply of data and responsibilities
for the Group, brands, companies and locations.

V V CO O P E R AT I O N W I T H N A B U

Naturschutzbund Deutschland e.V. (NABU ) is accompanying us in
a process of “critical dialogue” on our way to becoming the most
sustainable automaker. In 2014 the issues at the heart of this
­ongoing technical exchange of views were once again climate protection, ­resource efficiency and biodiversity. In October 2014
­Martin ­Winterkorn, Chairman of the Group Board of Management,
held a summit meeting with NABU President Olaf Tschimpke. As
well as communication, environment, sales and financial services,
the dialogue covered the service field and – for the first time ever –
the logistics sector. A “Mobile Dialogue” forum in Berlin with
­experts from politics and public authorities engaged in close scrutiny of ­Volks­wa­gen’s environmental protection as a whole. A major
moorland protection conference in June 2014 generated further
­political momentum. On a smaller scale we also had a number of
meetings with representatives of other environmental NGOs to
­discuss issues such as refrigerants in air-conditioning systems. The
partners again mobilized a broad public for joint objectives in the
field of environmental protection and nature conservation (e.g.
“Smart driving saves fuel” training courses, the “Welcome Wolf!”
cross-media campaign, marketing relating to moorland conservation, and promotion of renaturing program for the River Havel).
With its broad spectrum of issues and fields and types of action, the

Prof. Dr. Martin Winterkorn (left) and Bernd Osterloh (right) presenting the
Group Sustainability Report 2013 in May 2014.

27

ECONOMY
CO NTE NT S
32

Essay Hans Dieter Pötsch

34

Management Approach

37

Product Responsibility

40

Local Value Added

42

Supplier Management

46

Compliance

48

Ratings and Indexes

­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROUP PASSENGER CAR MARKET SHARES BY REGION ­
2014, in %

17.0
25.1

CENTR AL AND
­E A ST E R N E U RO P E

4.6

W E ST E R N E U RO P E

NORTH AMERICA

(2013: 24.9%)

(2013: 15.6%)

(2013: 4.8%)

13.3
A S I A - PAC I F I C
(2013: 12.9%)

17.8
SOUTH AMERICA
(2013: 18.9%)

GROUP SALES
REVENUE
2014, in € million

GROUP PROFIT
BEFORE TAX
2014, in %

GROUP INVESTING
­ CTIVITIES ATTRIBUTABLE
A
TO OPERATING ACTIVITIES
2014, in € million

202,458

7.3

16,452

(2013: €197,007 million)

(2013: 6.3%)

(2013: €14,936 million)

E CO N O MY

Essay

U NCERTA I N T Y IS T H E
N E W NOR M A L I T Y –
A N D BUSI N E S S N EEDS
T O DE A L W I T H I T
Geopolitical uncertainties, growth imbalances and
economic power shifts: these developments represent
the “new normality” in which we operate today. Onetime certainties are being consigned to the past; uncertainty is becoming our constant companion. We are experiencing a volatility in economic affairs such as we
have not witnessed for many years. Who would have
thought, for example, that the price of oil could fall so
dramatically in the wake of the fracking boom and a
global slowdown in demand?

When talking about the “new normality” we cannot
overlook the radical social changes taking place around
us, changes with impacts on our business that we are
only beginning to glimpse. The so-called “shareconomy” has already changed many aspects of modern life –
from finding somewhere to stay in foreign cities all the
way to taxi rides. We share our data with co-workers in
the cloud – and the automobile as a shared asset has
also become a central component of various business
models.

“One-time certainties
are being con signed to
the past; uncertaint y is
becoming our con stant
companion.”

The disruptive impact of digitization is transforming
operational paradigms across many sectors: Who decides what the markets of the future will look like? Will
our future competitors be the same as those we face today? With digitization our industry is facing a further
shift toward automation – yet above all we will be seeing
the emergence of new business models, relating not just
to infotainment but also to areas such as mobility services and after-sales. At the same time a more general
increase in environmental awareness combined with
more stringent environmental legislation is also generating new business models and new competitors.
The continuing development of low-emission drive
­systems is the second major technological revolution
directly impacting our industry. Electric mobility is
a key pillar when it comes to reaching the EU’s CO2 -­
targets for 2020. And yet we still cannot tell which
technology will come to the fore. So the current challenge is to configure a phased transition to the new
energy-efficient technologies. Given the uncertainties
mentioned above, however, this also means higher
levels of risk and major expenditure for both R&D and
production.

At the same time globalization has entered a new evolutionary phase; the days when this process was one-way
traffic are long gone. Asia, in particular, is amassing
capital on a gigantic scale. New competitors – global
competitors to be seriously reckoned with – are appearing in many sectors, including ours. The power relationships in the global economy are shifting, so it is
­important that trade barriers between the industrial
nations continue to be dismantled – even if the popularity of the concept of free trade has sadly diminished in
recent times. The current negotiations on the Trans­
atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership provide a
clear illustration of how important a free trade agreement is when it comes to establishing common standards and regulations to facilitate trade.

Above all, the challenge now is to re-align the way we
think and operate in order to confront effectively and
successfully the technological and economic change to
which our business is exposed. This requires solid
32

E CO N O MY

Essay

“Who decides what the
markets of the future
will look like? Will our
future competitors be
the same as those we
face today?”

f­ inances, creativity, flexibility and speed of response,
robust business models outside our established markets, a further diversification and regionalization of
our product portfolio, and a sustained drive to localize
production and procurement. Because in the volume
segment we can only remain competitive if we significantly increase local value creation. Given an annual
procurement volume of €145.5 billion and the fact that
a large proportion of our sales revenue is generated in
foreign currencies, ensuring the highest possible level
of localization is an important factor in hedging against
currency fluctuations.
We will also need to make considerable investments in
our products in order to deliver shorter product cycles
and meet regulatory requirements. To generate the
funds we need to fuel this journey into our automotive
future, we need to generate an ongoing increase in our
efficiency. With our modular matrixes we are ideally
equipped to achieve this: they provide the perfect basis
for delivering economic efficiency in production and a
rapid response to changes in our operating environment – be they shifts in customer preferences or new
CO2 legislation – across the whole of our portfolio.

in companies, indeed in the entire market economy
system, is diminishing. Politics and business must
therefore work together to seek a healthy balance between necessary regulation and entrepreneurial freedom, in order to maintain an attractive economic system founded on personal responsibility and individual
initiative.

Hans Dieter Pötsch
Member of the Group Board of Management
responsible for Finance and Controlling

“The di srupt ive impact
of dig it i zat ion i s tran sforming operat ional
paradig m s across many
sectors.”
As yet we don’t know exactly what the automobile of
the future will look like. But as a robust company that
is well positioned in terms of both finance and strategy,
we will come up with innovative answers. With respect
to the key issues for the future, however, we are to
some extent dependent on regulatory, fiscal and social
factors – and thus also reliant on politicians setting
wise parameters, as well as creating and preserving
room for entrepreneurial initiative. Since the economic and f­ inancial crisis, however, the regulatory environment has become increasingly dense. Conversely, trust
33

E CO N O MY

IT’S NOT ABOUT
GROWTH AT ALL COSTS.
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group keeps on growing, year after year. In 2014, for the first time ever we sold more
than 10 million vehicles. That brought us closer to our corporate goal of being the world’s leading
­automaker by 2018. But unit sales are not the only measure of success; it’s also about profitability,
customer satisfaction and sustainability.

M A N AG E M E N T A PPROACH

Group. By applying intelligent innovations and technologies, we
are aiming for global leadership in customer satisfaction and quality. However, the Group’s sustainable success also depends on how
promptly we identify risks and opportunities and how consistently
we comply with legislation, ethical principles and self-imposed obligations. Consequently, far-sighted risk management and a stringent compliance organization are of decisive importance for us. We
not only apply high standards to our own activities but also demand
compliance with these standards from our suppliers.

Faced with challenges such as globalization, digitization or increasing regulation, it is more essential than ever for us to optimize processes across all of our brands, develop new and innovative products, and invest in our locations and in our employees. In
fact, to further expand our market presence and access new markets we must first redefine mobility, and that new definition extends from electric mobility and automated driving all the way to
networked mobility systems. Playing a pioneering role here is going to call for major investments.
As we strive to maintain and reinforce our economic stability
against the backdrop of shifting markets and economic uncertainty, we continue to put our trust in the enormous diversification of
our product portfolio and in broadbased positioning in the global
markets. Our policy of adding maximum value at local level not
only brings us many economic advantages but also reduces our
risk exposure (see page 40). At the same time, this approach plays
an important part in supporting local development and helps us
meet the different customer needs more effectively.
Ensuring stability and profitability therefore constitutes a core action area of the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group – providing a basis for sustainable growth and investment in the future. With this in mind we have
put in place a future-oriented efficiency program called Future
Tracks. We are targeting further profitable growth so as to be continuously in a position to invest in the future of the V
­ olks­wa­gen

Market Developments
In view of the worldwide patterns of demand for cars and commercial vehicles, the growth markets of Asia, South America and Central and Eastern Europe are particularly important to the
­Volks­wa­gen Group. These markets offer great potential, although
in some countries in these regions the background conditions
present obstacles to growing our local unit sales. In Russia, for example, the political crisis and its economic consequences have put
a brake on market growth. Nevertheless, Russia has the potential
to become one of the world’s largest automobile markets. The US
vehicle market again showed tangible growth in 2014, thanks to
the positive development of the economy and attractive financing
conditions. However, given that the crisis-led backlog in replacement demand has largely been met, market growth now looks set
to slow down. In Brazil the economic situation worsened following
a promising start to the reporting period, with a negative impact
on the vehicle market. Rising inflation and interest rates meant
that vehicles b
­ ecame more expensive. To strengthen our competitive position here, we offer models that have been developed specifically for the Brazilian market and are manufactured locally,
including the Gol and the Fox. China, the largest market in the
Asia-Pacific region, continued to grow in the reporting period.
Here, demand for motor vehicles will continue to rise in the coming years, driven by the growing need for personal mobility.
Growth rates looks set slow down, however, and will likely shift
from the major cities on the coast to the inland regions.

V V AC T I O N A R E A S COV E R E D BY T H I S C H A P T E R

Stability and profitability
Quality
Vehicle safety
Customer satisfaction
Supplier relationships
Compliance, risk management, corporate governance

34

M A N AG E M E N T A P P R O A C H

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

SUPPLIER M ANAGEMENT

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

Policies and Guidelines

term it can be used by multiple Group brands to build different categories of vehicle on one and the same production line. In the
event of radical changes in the marketplace, the MQB can thus
help avoid excess capacities and misallocation of resources. In
­addition to conventional gasoline and diesel engines, the MQB
also gives us the opportunity to integrate alternative powertrains,
such as gas, hybrid, or electric drives. In view of the varied and
changing CO2 regulation scenario worldwide, this represents an
invaluable added measure of flexibility. New driver assistance
systems such as road sign or pedestrian recognition, the traffic
jam assistant or Emergency Assist can also be installed with the
MQB . The MQB was introduced at the ­Volks­wa­gen, Audi, SE AT
and ŠKODA brands in 2012 and by 2014 more than 2.5 million
­vehicles had been built on this basis. Additional models based on
the MQB in 2014 included the Audi A3 e-tron•, the ­Volks­wa­gen
Passat• and Passat Estate•, and the Golf models Golf Estate CNG•,
Golf GT E •, e-Golf • and the Golf Sportsvan•. The MQB ’s counterpart on the production side is the Modular Production Matrix
(MPB ), which mandates equipment-related standards for the entire production process.

Our business activities are governed by our policies and the
strategic goals of the Group:
>> The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group corporate values: Defined in 2002,
these lay the foundations for our activities (see page 20).
>> The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group Code of Conduct: Introduced in 2010,
the Group-wide Code of Conduct (see page 46) must also be
­respected by our business partners.
>> The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group requirements regarding sustaina­
bility in its relationships with business partners (Code of
Conduct for business partners): Originally defined in 2006,
the requirements were revised in 2013. They set out the Group’s
­expectations concerning its business partners’ conduct with
­regard to central environmental and social standards.
18
>> Policy on Taxes and Duties: Drawn up in 2014, this describes
our Group-wide approach to the topic of tax and duties.
19

Quality Assurance

>> Quality Policy: In 2008 the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand issued a Quality
Policy which covers product quality, process quality, customer
satisfaction and on-time delivery. Similar policies are in force at
the other Group brands.

The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group pursues a uniform quality strategy worldwide. The growing number of production locations and marketspecific model variants leaves quality assurance – from product
development to customer service – facing major challenges. In
­order to live up to our high quality standards worldwide, quality
assurance activities are governed by a central body at crossbrand
level. This ensures a high degree of organizational and thematic
standardization. The Group networks the brands and regions and
controls the overarching processes in this context. Responsibility
for product quality lies with the respective markets and regions.
Across all locations and over the entire product life cycle, some
16,000 employees are involved in quality processes, helping to
safeguard our growth by avoiding and eliminating errors.

Modular Strategy
One key instrument in the pursuit of our economic goals is the
Modular Transverse Matrix, also known by its German abbreviation MQB . The MQB offers a uniform technical framework for
­v irtually all future V
­ olks­wa­gen Group vehicles with a transverse
engine. It enables us to use identical components in different
models, reducing both development costs and production times.
By enabling the replacement of individual components, the MQB
helps us respond rapidly to changing customer wishes. In the long

V V K E Y F I G U R E S BY M A R K E T 1

Vehicle sales

Thousand vehicles/€ million
Europe/Other markets

Sales revenue

2014

2013

2014

2013

4,430

4,209

122,858

117,062

North America

879

901

27,619

27,434

South America

794

987

13,868

17,495

4,114

3,632

38,113

35,016

10,217

9,728

202,458

197,007

Asia-Pacific2
­Volks­wa­gen Group2

2

1
All figures shown are rounded, so minor discrepancies may arise from addition of these amounts.
The sales revenue of the joint venture companies in China is not included in the figures for the Group and the Asia-Pacific market.

35

E CO N O MY

in

Str

g

es

sr

e

cti

Dr

du

iv

V V AU TO M AT E D D R I V I N G CO N C E P T S F R O M AU D I A N D S C A N I A

on

PILOTED
DRIVING &
­P A R K I N G
En

a

m

or

ki

rt

ng

te

in

en

W

t

Recent examples include the autonomous emergency braking system, which was launched in 2013 and became a mandatory requirement in 2014. This system automatically brakes the vehicle
combination if an obstruction on the road is detected and the driver fails to react. The next generation of intelligent electronic assistance systems, now being developed at Scania, offers various autonomous driving capabilities to enhance efficiency and safety,
using a range of sensor technologies such as cameras, radar and
ultrasound to help guide the vehicle. These systems are now being
implemented for the mining industry. In parallel, Scania is developing systems for autonomous high-speed vehicle platooning on
motorways, a technology that offers promising potential, in particular for reducing fuel consumption. Scania is currently leading
the European Union’s COMPA NION research project, which is
exploring the potential of vehicle platooning and assessing what
legislative changes would be required to implement it.

Automated Driving
For the past 25 years, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group has been developing
a variety of automated driving concepts, starting with driver
­a ssistance systems that enhance road safety by providing optimal
driver support, while also reducing driver errors. In the future
however, the main focus of development work will be on communication-based vehicle speed control, designed to improve overall traffic flow – which at the same time means reduced energy
consumption.
Audi is performing pioneering work in the field of automated driving. From Audi Adaptive Cruise Control with Stop & Go function to
traffic sign recognition, driver assistance systems designed to
ease the load on the driver are already available across the entire
Audi model line-up. Later this decade, the brand will also introduce newly developed “piloted driving” technologies. In certain
situations, such as driving in heavy, stop-go traffic or parking,
these systems can take complete control of the vehicle – if the driver wishes. Audi, which became the world’s first carmaker to receive a license to test autonomous vehicles on public roads in the
US state of Nevada in 2013, will open a new chapter in driver assistance systems in 2015 with the launch of the new Audi Q7•, featuring solutions such as the Predictive Efficiency Assistant, the Trailer Assistant and Adaptive Cruise Control including the Congestion
Assistant. Other Group brands are developing similar concepts.
For example, in 2012 the ­Volks­wa­gen brand presented its Temporary Auto Pilot system, for autonomous driving on motorways at
speeds of up to 130 km/h. A production version of this system could
be ready in the near future.
In the commercial vehicle sector too, intelligent electronic assistance systems are an important development focus. Scania already
offers driver assistance systems that support truck drivers in their
day-to-day work, strengthen safety and reduce fuel consumption.

VV Intelligent vehicles will mean fewer
accidents, fewer traffic jams and less
congestion.
According to the U N Convention on Road Traffic, as amended in
2014, automated systems are now permissible as long as they can
be overridden or switched off by the driver at any time. Even here,
though, change could be on the way. Computers are now capable of
driving more safely than distracted or tired drivers, and their reactions are quicker and more precise. As well as reducing accidents, the benefits of intelligent vehicles also include less congestion and reduced driving stress. The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s work on
these highly complex technologies is closely focused on meeting
the evolving needs of modern society.

36

M A N AG E M E N T A P P R O A C H

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

SUPPLIER M ANAGEMENT

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

PRO D U C T R ES P O N S I B I L I T Y

commercial performance, which is reflected not least in our Fuel &
Powertrain Strategy (see pages 91 – 92).
Our innovations are not restricted to efficient powertrains and
lightweight design. We see mobility as a holistic concept and bundle our activities here under the heading of “Intelligent Mobility”.
By this we mean greater efficiency, more networking and greater
flexibility, or in other words an increase in safe, comfortable and
environmentally compatible mobility (see page 86). With the
­Volks­wa­gen Data Lab, founded in Munich in 2014, we are laying
the foundations for new digital offerings involving the processing
and analysis of large volumes of data. Here, fledgling start-ups
and leading scientific institutes join forces with experts from our
specialist departments to come up with new ideas and develop­
software prototypes for the Group.

­ olks­wa­gen takes a comprehensive view of product responsibility.
V
Along with core aspects of quality and both active and passive vehicle safety, the strategic framework for our product development
work is provided by three action areas from the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group’s environmental management system – resource conservation, climate protection and healthcare. We aim to help our customers experience comprehensive road safety and offer them a
wide range of efficient, affordable and practical powertrain technologies.

V V “ M O S T I N N OVAT I V E C A R M A K E R ” AWA R D

In 2014, ­Volks­wa­gen’s technical innovations again impressed the
German Center of Automotive Management (CAM). For the
fourth time in succession, CAM awarded the ­Volks­wa­gen Group
its AutomotiveINNOVATIONS Award in the category “Most innovative carmaker” as well as in the categories “Conventional Powertrains”, “Alternative Powertrains” and “Networked Vehicle” as
the world’s best manufacturer. The jury explained its choice by
stating that with 229 innovations and an innovation rating of
186 points, ­Volks­wa­gen had charted “the highest score ever recorded by a single Group” as well as demonstrating “a very high
level of technological competence and a broad portfolio of innovative brands”. The highlights given special mention were the
e-up!• and the e-Golf•, highly economical electric cars that went
into series production in the period covered by the award. The
most impressive innovations singled out were the Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid3• as the first luxury class plug-in hybrid and
the 918 Spyder Plug-in-Hybrid• as the world’s most powerful
plug-in hybrid model.

V V CO M P R E H E N S I V E R OA D S A F E T Y – Š KO DA S T Y L E

On their market launch, all seven of the ŠKODA brand’s model series
scored the top 5-star rating in the respected Euro NCAP crash test.
The latest member of the product line-up to receive 5 stars was the
new ŠKODA Fabia• in November 2014. This top rating across the
board documents the high level of safety that ŠKODA vehicles represent and is the result of comprehensive efforts aimed at maximum active and passive safety. To this end, the specialists in the
Technical Development department design innovative assistance
systems as well as perfectly coordinated occupant retention systems, leading-edge chassis technology, high-performance lighting
systems and optimized bodywork structures. In addition, in the
context of its social responsibility, the company commits to a varie21
ty of initiatives designed to enhance road safety.

Innovation Management
Between now and 2019, V
­ olks­wa­gen is set to invest the enormous
sum of €85.6 billion in new models, environmentally compatible
drive technologies and optimized production processes. These investments are essential to prepare us for global challenges, regulatory requirements and new customer wishes, and to extend our
innovation and technology leadership. At the same time we are
aiming to step up the efficiency of our crossbrand innovation management as well as networking the development processes at our
brands. By creating overarching technology networks we avoid
parallel developments, generate efficient technology transfer and
can simultaneously reduce our development costs. In order to offer
each customer a product that is not only tailored to their needs but
also environmentally compatible, we are driving forward the
­development of solutions that range from highly efficient, eco-­
friendly diesel, gasoline and natural gas engines to innovative
­hybrid drive systems and all-electric vehicles. The decisive factor
for the attainment of our corporate goals is our technological and

37

Award-winning level of safety: the ŠKODA Fabia•.

E CO N O MY

V V CO N T I N U O U S I N N OVAT I O N

19 0 0

19 73

19 92 –19 9 6

LOH N ER-PORSC H E

V W TR ANSPORTER T2 ELECTR IC

GOLF I I I C ITYSTROMER

Ferdinand Porsche presents the first
­s erviceable electric car
Innovative: driven by two hub motors >
50 km/h top speed, 50 km range > Wiener
Hofwagenfabrik in Vienna builds some
300 units

­ olks­w a­gen presents its first electric vehicle
V
Continuous output 23 PS, peak output 45 PS
> 70 km/h top speed > 50 – 80 km range >
huge 850 kg lead-acid battery, gvw 2.2 t >
70 units built with different bodies

­ olks­wa­gen markets e-Golf suitable for
V
everyday use
Greater range and more units sold than
­p revious electric cars > relatively compact
lead-gel battery > 50 to 90 km range,
100 km/h top speed > some 100 units built
at the Mosel plant

Safe Vehicles and Road Safety

The activities of Group Research include drawing up feasibility studies for future automated driving and safety functions. For instance,
the Autopilot function uses sensors to scan the vehicle’s environment, identifies and interprets the dynamic situation and computes
the appropriate maneuvers. Equipped with this technology, the vehicle can drive itself autonomously and safely in parking garages
and car parks, and can subsequently drive to a predefined pick-up
point to await the driver’s return. In urban environments the system
supports the driver in choosing an appropriate speed and can assist
with lateral guidance in narrow spaces. On major roads and motorways the system is capable of driving autonomously, taking full control of longitudinal and lateral guidance, so that drivers can even
take their hands off the wheel. If the system then encounters a safety-critical situation, it helps with the braking and evasive action,
thereby reducing the severity of an accident or, in the best-case scenario, preventing it entirely. Despite all of these sophisticated assistance systems, however, the driver remains responsible for control
of the vehicle. Assuring his or her safety – and the safety of all other
road users – is the primary goal of all assistance systems.

As an automaker we believe we have a responsibility to protect all
road users to the best of our ability. All of our activities in this
­respect are geared to Vision Zero, which is to say zero fatalities or
severe injuries in and due to vehicles manufactured by the
­Volks­wa­gen Group. We are working to prevent accidents happening in the first place. The Group’s accident research departments play a pivotal role in this work, reconstructing and evaluating accidents in order to obtain information that will help
boost future vehicle safety – findings that feed directly into our
vehicle development activities, leading to new and user-oriented
innovations. Today, a whole raft of assistance systems help drivers defuse hazardous situations well in advance. Intelligent
driver assistance systems help them identify risks faster or avoid
dangerous situations from the outset. These include ACC cruise
control with Automatic Distance Control, the lane-keeping assistant Lane Assist, or the lane-changing assistant Side Assist,
as well as the Emergency Assist system (introduced in the Passat
in November 2014), along with many other driver assistance and
safety systems. The aim in the future is to provide support when
braking and taking evasive action to avoid collisions and provide
an even higher level of safety. These active safety systems are
backed up by optimally designed passive safety technology, for
example in the shape of highly deformation-resistant passenger
cells, defined front and rear crumple zones and crash-optimized interior design.

Product Safety
Maintaining the highest standards of product safety is of fundamental importance to the Group and its brands. That is why we
attach such importance to painstaking quality assurance along
the entire value chain, from purchasing right through to sales.
Standardized processes, which are continuously optimized, provide a benchmark in all parts of the value chain. As part of our
risk management activities we also enforce the highest possible
quality standards throughout the value chain. Because we will
only retain satisfied customers if our products exceed their expectations.

VV We will only retain satisfied
customers if our products exceed their
expectations.
38

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

SUPPLIER M ANAGEMENT

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

19 9 7

2 0 11

2013

AU DI A4 AVANT DUO

XL1 •

E-U P! •

Audi becomes the first European automaker
to produce series-built hybrids
Plug-in Hybrid > rear mounted lead-gel
­battery, 90 PS diesel engine + water-cooled
electric motor (29 PS)

­ olks­w a­gen presents the world’s most
V
­e conomical hybrid car
High-tech lightweight design, perfect aerodynamics, 7-speed DSG, plug-in hybrid
­s ystem > consumption just 0.9 l/100 km
(24 g CO 2/km), world’s most economical
­hybrid car > study presented at Qatar Motor
Show, test fleet 2012, limited series 2013

First volume-built electric V
­ olks­w a­gen
All-electric compact car and innovative
­urban specialist – top speed: 135 km/h,
­r ange up to 130 km (initially) > displayed at
the IAA in 2009 as a show car and in 2011 as
a study close to production readiness

Customer Satisfaction

In the USA , meanwhile, ­Volks­wa­gen ranked among the top three
while Audi topped the rankings with a better customer satisfaction
rating than its rivals. In Brazil the Group’s brands finished in
mid-table but were able to improve on their score from the previous year.

Customer satisfaction is of paramount importance for all
­Volks­w a­g en Group brands. We monitor customer satisfaction
­using standardized performance indicators which are the same
for all brands and include brand image, desirability, future purchase consideration, product quality and brand communication
awareness. To ensure the targeted management of value-creating
measures for the brands, we have established a “Group K PI ” platform that can be accessed by all of the brands. Along with core indicators such as unit sales growth or customer loyalty, here the
brands can also generate their own specific indicators to enable
them to track customer satisfaction on an ongoing basis.
Around the world and across all Group brands satisfaction
­studies are carried out through which we ensure that due attention is paid to customer wishes and that we constantly improve
our product and process quality. These studies focus on three
areas: product, service and dealerships. Over the years we have
been able to achieve a constant improvement in the Group’s
­average rating. Consequently, we believe we are on track to reach
our corporate goal of leading the field in terms of customer
­satisfaction.
In 2014 the individual brands also turned in a very good performance in terms of customer satisfaction: in the European market
all of the Group’s brands topped the rankings ahead of their respective competitors and were also able to improve their customer
satisfaction ratings compared to the previous year. Porsche in particular merits special mention in this respect. In China too there
were very positive developments to report, with all Group brands
improving on their performance of the previous year. V
­ olks­wa­gen,
ŠKODA and Audi led the field in terms of customer satisfaction,
ahead of their respective competitors.

Information and Labeling
As product manufacturers, all companies in the V
­ olks­w a­gen
Group are obliged to suitably inform the users of their products
about dangers that can ensue even during correct operation or
foreseeable misuse of the product and warn them accordingly.
The Group companies meet these requirements through instruction manuals and in individual cases through warning
stickers in the vehicle. Since December 1, 2011, it has been
mandatory for all new cars in Germany to be labeled with a
weight-based efficiency label similar to the energy labeling system used for household appliances. Efficiency classes range
from A+ (very efficient) to G (inefficient). The label also provides
information on fuel consumption, annual fuel costs, CO 2 emissions and the amount of tax payable under Germany’s CO 2 based vehicle tax. For electric vehicles, the label provides information on electricity consumption. All Group brands use their
websites to provide information on the fuel consumption and
CO 2 emissions of their models. The fuel consumption and emission figures for all models referred to in this report can be found
on page 144 . The ­Volks­w a­gen and Audi brands also publish
E nvironmental Commendations (see pages 94 – 95), which
­
­describe improvements in the environmental performance of
new vehicles and technologies over their predecessors or reference models.

39

E CO N O MY

V V S E L E C T E D P R O D U C T AWA R D S I N G E R M A N Y 2 01 4

Award

Model

Awarding Body

MAN Lion’s City GL CNG

Bus Euro Test

Golf Sportsvan• (­Volks­wa­gen),
­Passat• (­Volks­wa­gen),
Macan• (Porsche),
Cayman GTS (Porsche)

Bild am Sonntag/Auto Bild

Scania G 410•

Verkehrsrundschau and Trucker

Golf GTE• (­Volks­wa­gen)

Bild am Sonntag/Auto Bild

eco up!• (­Volks­wa­gen), Passat 1.4
TSI EcoFuel• (­Volks­wa­gen)

AUTOTEST

eco up!• (­Volks­wa­gen),
Citigo CNC Green tec• (ŠKODA),
Mii Ecofuel• (SEAT)

Verkehrsclub Deutschland e.V.

Bus of the Year 2015
Golden Steering Wheel

Green Truck 2014
Green Steering Wheel
Most eco-friendly cars in all classes

VCD Top 10 ranking list of
­environment-friendly cars

L O C A L VA LU E A D D E D

jobs at the ­Volks­wa­gen plant and added jobs at local suppliers. And
thanks to our sustainable supplier development efforts in Kaluga
(Russia), at the end of 2014 our plant there was working with a
­total of 60 suppliers on the locally produced models. Together with
our joint venture partners, we are set to invest a total of €18.2 billion in new locations and products in China from 2014 to 2018 –
the largest investment program in the history of the Chinese automobile industry. Here the Group’s investments take account of
the Chinese government’s efforts to continue growing and developing the economy in the western part of the country.
At our locations we also support a large number of projects which
foster social development, the arts, education and nature conservation and promote regional economic development (see pages
76 – 77).

Local production in important sales markets is a core element of
our growth strategy. Lower logistics costs, procurement prices in
line with local market conditions, elimination of import duties
and immunity from volatile exchange rates contribute to the competitiveness of our brands. And people in the regions profit as well.
Not only do we create skilled jobs, but our production locations attract supplier firms to locate in the area, contributing to local economic development.

Economic Benefits of Localization
The concept of localization helps us to open up new markets. We
observe the different markets and specific customer needs and
bring our products into line with the local requirements. Thanks
to the MQB we have a uniform global platform on which to efficiently make specific regional adaptations to our models. I­ n China, for example, specially modified vehicles and models designed
for that market form the cornerstone of our growth strategy. Today
our product portfolio in China spans all segments, from compact
cars to luxury sports cars. And new vehicle categories such as SUVs
were incorporated into local production activities at an early date.

Contributing to Regional Development
Through our focus on the localization of value added, we create
jobs in our production locations and generate significant upstream and downstream employment effects at supplier companies, service operations and other local contractors. In Pune
­( India) for example, since the ­Volks­wa­gen location was set up 69
new supplier companies have been founded, creating some 13,500
­d irect and indirect jobs. The decision in 2014 to produce a new SU V
at the Chattanooga location (USA ) also created 2,000 a­ dditional

The ­Volks­w a­gen Polo• is built at the Pune plant in India.

40

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

SUPPLIER M ANAGEMENT

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

V V F O CU S TO P I C

SUVS:
WHERE EMOTION MEETS REASON?
In no other segment has demand risen so steeply in recent years as in the category of sport-utility vehicles
or SUVs. The ideal view of the road and a high degree of comfort and safety make these off-roaders the ideal
­everyday companion for customers. But on account of their size and the associated higher level of fuel
­consumption, these models often come in for criticism from the media or environmental organizations as
gas ­g uzzlers and climate killers.

Above all, the expansion of the worldwide SUV market as the
segment with the fastest relative growth reveals the scale of the
challenges that every automaker faces in respect of compliance
with CO2 emissions regulations. Innovations, above all in the
fields of lightweight design, aerodynamics and – in particular –
electrification are in greater demand now than ever before.
Electrification, however, needs to become more widespread if
this type of drive is to become accepted as “normal”. This will
also call for reduced cost structures, leading to marked reductions in the ­surcharges for electric drive and thus to the kind of
attractive prices that are necessary. On the way to this goal we
have already launched models including the Golf GTE•, e-up!•,
eGolf•, A3 e-tron• and Cayenne S E-Hybrid•. Electrified concept
vehicles such as the Cross Coupé GTE or the Sport Coupé Concept
GTE signpost the way forward here. The ­Volks­wa­gen Group
­already has the highest proportion of electrified models in its
product portfolio, offering a combination of fun at the wheel
and environmentally compatible consumption, driving the more
widespread acceptance of electric mobility, and helping sustainable mobility concepts to make a breakthrough.
Innovations in the fields of lightweight design and aerodynamics will enable us to achieve further increases in efficien-

Dr. Axel Kalthoff,
Head of Sales Coordination,
­Volks­w a­gen Group

cy. Compared to their predecessors, the latest versions of the
­Volks­wa­gen Touareg• and the Audi Q7• are far lighter. Further
savings are achieved through the ongoing enhancement of
our energy-efficient engines, so that the Touareg• consumes
less than 10 liters per 100 kilometers and the Tiguan• just 5.3
liters.
In this way, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group manages to resolve apparently contradictory aspirations such as compliance with climate
­protection goals on the one hand and responding to the simultaneous rise in individual customer requirements on the other,
while making an express commitment to fulfilling its ecological
responsibilities, today and in the future.

VV The concept of localization helps us
open up new markets and at the
same time contributes to regional
­development.

V V C O N T R I B U T I N G TO T H E C L E A N E N E RG Y R E VO L U T I O N

Around the world, the shift toward cleaner energy generation systems is associated with high investment costs. However, society
and local regions can expect to reap an enormous dividend. With
our products, we are aiming to play a part in integrating all the necessary technologies into an efficient, comprehensive system. For
example, the natural gas engines developed by MAN Diesel & Turbo
for combined heat and power (CHP) plants are a key component in
decentralized energy generation. And the Audi e-gas project maps
out ways to efficiently store large quantities of wind or solar energy
regardless of location (see page 92). For further information, see our
20
brochure on cleaner energy.

41

E CO N O MY

specific elements were still being rolled out at the Porsche, M A N
and Scania brands.
We continuously train employees and raise their awareness to ensure that the concept is further anchored within the Company.
Consequently, the concept is an established part of the qualification program at the procurement academies run by the individual
locations. In addition, cross-functional training courses were
again held in 2014. In the reporting year, more than 900 purchasing staff received training in Sustainability in Supplier Relations.
To reinforce the communication of our concept internally and externally, in 2014 we also published a brochure and made it available on the Group Business Platform.
22

Subsidies and Taxes
In 2014, for the expansion of its activities in the field of research
and development and in the creation of new production locations
the ­
Volks­
wa­
gen Group received €883 million in government
grants related to income.
At the same time, thanks to its localization strategy, through taxes
and duties the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group helps ensure that state and municipal investments in infrastructure and public welfare are possible in many parts of the world. It is our policy to pay taxes wherever we add value. In 2014 we paid the worldwide tax authorities a
total of around €4 billion in income tax. This represents a tax rate
of 25.2% for the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group worldwide. Well over half of
these payments were accounted for by Germany.

Risk Analysis
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group subjects all potential new business partners and suppliers to an integrity check (Business Partner Check).
Our aim is to reduce the risk of a relationship that could adversely
affect the Group and its business by carefully examining the social
integrity of the potential supplier. So suppliers who register on the
Group Business Platform for the first time are subjected to the
Business Partner Check before onboarding.
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group uses a country risk analysis to obtain a
clearer picture of social, environmental and human-rights risks
in the region where potential suppliers operate before entering
into negotiations with them. This takes both third-party information and in-house empirical data into account. The analysis has
shown that there is an increased risk of non-compliance with our
sustainability requirements in Brazil, India, China, Mexico and
Russia. For this reason, in our supplier development activities we
place a particular focus on these countries. To identify current
­developments as well as long-term structural challenges in each
country, we rely on the ongoing exchange of information between
the brands and the regions at the regular meetings and video conferences held by the Sustainability Procurement Network.

SU PPL I E R M A N AG E M E N T
­Volks­wa­gen Group procurement mainly purchases production
materials, services and capex centrally. In the reporting period,
the purchasing volume – including the Chinese joint venture
­companies – increased by 7.7% to €145.5 billion. Suppliers in
­G ermany accounted for a share of 36.1%.

Concept and Organization
To ensure that flows of goods and services remain stable and efficient, in 2006 the ­Volks­wa­gen Group formulated its Sustainability
in Supplier Relations concept and has continued to refine it ever
since. Together with traditional priorities such as quality, price and
delivery times, the concept had been thoroughly integrated in our
procurement process. To us, applying and monitoring sustainability standards in the supply chain is above all a matter of minimizing
risk – preventing potential supply shortages and damage to our reputation and ensuring that the quality of the procured supplies and
services remains consistent. Both the Group and its suppliers profit
from the long-term supplier relationships which result.
The concept, which is based on three main pillars, aims to minimize or prevent negative social, environmental and financial
­i mpacts along our supply chain:

V V 2 01 4 P R O CU R E M E N T VO L U M E S BY CO M M O D I T Y *
Metal 29%

>> An early warning system that identifies and minimizes risks
along the supply chain.
>> Contractually mandated integration of the sustainability standards in the procurement process. These must be acknowledged
by all suppliers before submitting a quotation on the Group Business Platform. Otherwise it is not possible to submit a quotation.
>> Supplier monitoring and development.

Powertrain

23%

Electrical 20%

We regularly benchmark the effectiveness of our concept against
other companies and intensively analyze the results of sustainability ratings. This allows us to gain valuable insights for continuing optimization and development.
In recent years we have systematically extended the Sustainability
in Supplier Relations concept to all of the Group’s brands. In 2014

Interior

14%

Exterior

14%

* The survey of procurement volumes does not include goods from suppliers
to the Bugatti, Scania and ŠKODA India brands and the Chinese joint ventures.

42

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

S U P P L I E R M A N AG E M E N T

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

Thousands of parts from all over the world must comply with the requirements of sustainable supplier management.

V V P R O CU R E M E N T R I S K M A N AG E M E N T

V V 2 01 4 P R O CU R E M E N T VO L U M E S

in € billion

The risk management system in the procurement sector constantly
monitors and analyzes the financial stability of our suppliers. A
suite of different measures help to largely eliminate supply risks
due to the failure of suppliers. In addition, suitable measures are
­applied to minimize the financial effects of crises and insolvencies
in the supply chain.

By brand
­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars

85.5

Audi1

25.7

MAN2

7.8

ŠKODA

7.1

Scania

6.5

SEAT

4.4

­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles

2.6

Porsche

5.0

Bentley

0.8

­Volks­wa­gen Group

In 2013 we signed up to the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative (EI -TI ), which is supported by governments, NGOs, investors and businesses. The EITI aims to combat corruption by
making payment flows related to raw materials transparent. We
also demonstrate our commitment to more transparency in the
supply chain as a standing member of the U N Global Compact
­Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainability. The ­Volks­wa­gen
Group supports the efforts of the European Commission to suppress the funding of armed conflicts through the raw materials
trade. We play an active part in defining the position of the German
and European industry associations, advocating the application of
voluntary self-certification in the upstream segment of the supply
chain.

145.5

By region
Europe/Other markets

93.5

Asia-Pacific

39.1

South America

6.7

North America

6.2

Total

145.5
¹ Audi including Lamborghini and Ducati.
2

MAN incl. MAN Truck & Bus, MAN Diesel & Turbo and MAN Latin America.

43

E CO N O MY

Sustainability Requirements and Integration

Supplier Development and Qualification

Our supplier relations are based on the “­Volks­wa­gen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its relationships with business partners (Code of Conduct for Business Partners)”, which apply across the Group (see page 46). They formulate our expectations
for our business partners’ conduct with regard to central environmental and social standards. Among other things, they are based
on the principles of the U N Global Compact, the International
Chamber of Commerce’s Business Charter for Sustainable Development and the relevant conventions of the International Labour
Organization. These principles are supplemented by V
­ olks­wa­gen’s
Environmental Policy, the environment targets and regulations
derived from it, the Group’s Quality Policy and the V
­ olks­wa­gen
Declaration on Social Rights.
Before submitting a quotation, the supplier must acknowledge the
sustainability requirements; this acknowledgement must be repeated every 12 months. The requirements have been contractually integrated since November 2013 for all suppliers to General Procurement, and since January 2014 for all suppliers of production
materials as well. The requirements apply to all outsourced goods
and services worldwide. We also expect our tier 1 suppliers to pass
these requirements on to their own suppliers.
In addition, V
­ olks­wa­gen requires its main suppliers to put in place
a certified environmental management system in accordance with
ISO 14001 and/or EM A S . Such systems have been verified and
documented at 87% of our main suppliers. As part of the EM A S
and ISO 14001 environmental certification and auditing at the
­Volks­wa­gen AG locations, the contractors and suppliers who work
on the plant grounds and have an environmental impact are also
subject to regular monitoring.
In the course of the business process, all suppliers are required to
complete our sustainability questionnaire and to document their
activities in the areas of environmental protection and social
standards. By December 31, 2014, 15,405 Group suppliers had returned the questionnaire. In terms of procurement volume that
equates to 87%.

In the interests of continuing supplier development, in the course
of our business relations we make an electronic learning
(E-Learning) module on sustainability available to all suppliers in
all of the languages of the defined risk markets. After completing
this task, the supplier has to perform a final test. By the end of
2014, 14,457 suppliers had completed the E-Learning module,
which equates to 71% of procurement expenditures. The tool is
made available to the supplier’s workforce as well as to employees
of ­Volks­wa­gen AG Procurement for qualification purposes.
In addition to this E-Learning format, we also conduct region- and
topic-specific sustainability training courses and workshops with
our suppliers. In the reporting period, courses were held in countries including Brazil, Argentina, Germany and Poland.
In addition, as part of the European Automotive Working Group on
Supply Chain Sustainability, a supply chain forum took place in
Istanbul in November 2014. In an intensive dialogue, suppliers
and manufacturers discussed important challenges and solutions
with the aim of improving sustainability along the s­ upply chain.
The event spotlighted social rights. Through these diverse measures, in 2014 we were able to qualify more than 900 suppliers.

Supplier Monitoring and Audits
The ­Volks­wa­gen Group uses an internal system for sustainable supply chain management. It provides supplier-specific sustainability
information, enabling the comprehensive analysis of suppliers. If
there is reason to suspect that tier 1 suppliers or their suppliers are
failing to comply with our sustainability requirements, we ask the
party concerned for a written statement using a standardized report
(6D Report). Based on the six points in the report, they can describe
the status quo and any remedial measures. If the ­a nswers prove
­unsatisfactory, we take further appropriate steps, such as the examination of documents, visits to the supplier’s premises or other customized supplier development activities. These measures are coordinated by an ad-hoc expert team in Wolfsburg together with the expert
teams from the relevant brands and regions. Depending on the

V V P R O CU R E M E N T VO L U M E - B A S E D P R O P O R T I O N O F E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S O C I A L C E R T I F I C AT I O N AT M A I N S U P P L I E R S

2014

2013

2012

Environmental certification (EMAS , ISO 14001)
Verified1

48%

44%

30%

Self-assessed

39%

40%

not taken into account

Total

87%

84%

not taken into account

8%

6%

not taken into account

Social certification (OHSAS 18001, SA8000, AA1000)
Verified1 (total)
1

44

Taking all suppliers into account, 77% have EMAS /ISO 14001 and 7% social certification.

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

S U P P L I E R M A N AG E M E N T

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

V V S TAT U S Q U O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Q U E S T I O N N A I R E A N D E - L E A R N I N G

Total in
2014 + 2013 + 2012

Status 2014,
based on
procurement
e­ xpenditures

Procurement
volume-based
target for 2015

3,656

15,405

87%

89%

89/100

90/100

92/100

6,232

5,805

14,457

71%

73%

Number
completed in 2012

Number
­additionally
completed in 2013

Number
­additionally completed in 2014

Sustainability
questionnaire

7,812

3,937

Average score

90/100
2,420

E-Learning

s­ ituation, experts from specialist areas such as Occupational Health
and Safety or Personnel Management may also be called in. Specific
improvement measures were agreed with all such suppliers.
In 2014, for example, an unannounced visit to a supplier uncovered non-compliance with occupational safety requirements.
­Remedial measures were defined with the supplier on the spot,
including the correct installation of emergency exit signs and
fire-extinguishing equipment. The successful implementation
of these measures by the supplier represented a sustainable
­i mprovement in working conditions for the supplier’s employees.

The focus throughout all process steps and measures is on fair
­d ialogue in a spirit of partnership and on development of the supplier in the interests of sustainable collaboration. At the same
time, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group reserves the right to have compliance
with the sustainability requirements verified by inhouse experts
or by an external audit at the supplier’s premises during regular
business hours. In the event of non-compliance with our sustainability r­ equirements we will terminate business relations, particularly if the supplier shows no interest in improvement. No such
case occurred during the reporting period.
The internal and external point of contact for suspected cases of
non-compliance with our sustainability requirements, particularly where violations of human rights in the supply chain are concerned, is the email address: sustainability@vwgroupsupply.com.
In addition, employees and external parties can address possible
cases of non-compliance via the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s national and

VV Through fair dialogue in a spirit of
partnership and through supplier
­development we create sustainability in
supplier relations.

Sustainability training for ­Volks­w a­gen Group suppliers in Argentina.

45

E CO N O MY

V V A D - H O C C A S E S I N 2 01 4

Geographical distribution1

Europe

Context

Type of supplier

15 cases Environmental protection

2 cases Direct supplier

Asia

6 cases Social standards

North and South America

Environmental protection &
4 cases social standards

Africa

20 cases Sub-supplier

no cases Compliance
1

23 cases2
2 cases

2 cases
1 case

In the case of sub-suppliers the geographical location of the sub-supplier was used for the geographical distribution.
In the geographical distribution, Russia and Turkey are allocated to Asia.
2
Includes one case involving both a direct supplier and a sub-supplier.

international employee representation bodies as well as national
and international trade union federations.

brand or company. A clear understanding of Compliance-related
r­ equirements provides security for all concerned. The sustained
­success of our company can only be guaranteed if we comply with
the applicable laws and rules.” Christian Klingler, Member of the
Board of Management of ­Volks­wa­gen AG responsible for Sales and
Marketing, May 2014.

CO M PL I A N CE
In the long term, a company can only be successful if it acts with
integrity, complies with statutory provisions worldwide and stands
by its voluntary undertakings and ethical principles even when
this is the harder choice. Our Compliance organization supports
this approach.
We adopt a preventive compliance approach and foster a corporate
culture that stops potential breaches before they occur. The Internal Audit, Security, Personnel Management and Legal departments at Group level are responsible for the necessary investigative measures and responses. The guidelines laid down in the
­Volks­wa­gen Group’s Code of Conduct are of essential importance
here. These have been communicated and can be accessed by all
Group employees via the V
­ olks­wa­gen portal and on the Internet
pages of the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group.
9
The Group Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Chairman of the Group Board of Management. He is supported in his
work by 14 Chief Compliance Officers who are responsible for the
brands, the Financial Services Division and Porsche Holding
GmbH, Salzburg (Austria), and are in turn assisted by Compliance
Officers in the Group companies. Employees in a total of 66 countries work for the Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC ) organization. Networking of the organization is promoted by measures
including regional workshops.

Integrated Governance, Risk & Compliance Approach
Compliance is a key element of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC ) organization. Potential compliance risks are identified and assessed by the standard GRC process that is in place across the Group. As a result, in the reporting
year more than 2,500 assessments of potential compliance risks
and the relevant remedial measures were reported by over 90 companies; more than 550 tests were staged within the companies to
evaluate the effectiveness of these measures. Risk assessments are
drawn up in particular on the topics of active and passive corruption, conflicts of interest, competition law and antitrust law. Based
on the findings, preventive measures are drawn up and the appropriate compliance programs defined. During the selection process for new production locations, Group Production assesses the
locations not least with a view to potential corruption risks.

Expansion of Compliance in 2014
In 2014 the compliance agenda focused on the continuing expansion of the GRC organization, tightening compliance standards
for the sales organization, international money-laundering prevention, and the handling of contracts for work or services. In addition, based on the “­Volks­wa­gen Group requirements regarding
sustainability in its relationships with business partners” (Code of
Conduct for Business Partners), supplier awareness of topics including human rights was increased. Business partners of the

V V S E T T I N G T H E TO N E

“Compliance with regulations on anti-corruption and competition
law is essential for all employees worldwide, irrespective of the

46

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

S U P P L I E R M A N AG E M E N T

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

­ olks­wa­gen Group are subject to a Business Partner Check, a
V
risk-oriented assessment of their integrity, also based on the
“­Volks­wa­gen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its
relationships with business partners” (Code of Conduct for Business Partners). To raise awareness of the importance of compliance, since 2010 all new employment contracts entered into between ­Volks­wa­gen AG on the one part and both management staff
and employees covered by collective agreements on the other have
included a reference to the Code of Conduct and the obligation to
comply with it. Completion of the online training module on the
Code of Conduct is mandatory for all new employees. As of 2014,
compliance with the Code of Conduct is one factor in calculating
the variable, performance-based pay component.

On United Nations International Anti-Corruption Day, many
­Volks­wa­gen locations held a variety of multi-channel activities related to corruption prevention. A film was also made for the event
and shown internationally. In 2014 over 185,000 employees
across the Group took part in 4,444 classroom and online courses
on the topics of compliance in general, money laundering, the
Code of Conduct, competition and antitrust legislation, human
rights and combatting corruption. Online E-Learning programs
and classroom training are firmly anchored in existing corporate
processes. Employees of all brand companies and a large number
of Group companies are able to obtain personal advice about compliance issues, usually by contacting the compliance organization
via a dedicated e-mail address. In the fall of 2014, a letter specifically addressed to all employees of Group Security and Plant Security at ­Volks­wa­gen AG once again called attention to the Group
Code of Conduct, including its human rights requirements.

Prevention through Information
By means of appropriate preventive measures integrated in our
existing management system, we foster compliance with the rules
within our organization and sharpen our employees’ awareness.
However, we are also aware that the risk of individual misconduct
can never be completely eliminated. To raise employee awareness
of compliance-related issues we use both traditional communi­
cation channels such as employee magazines and information
stands, and electronic media such as intranet portals, apps, blogs,
audio-podcasts and online newsletters and guidelines. For example, our Anti-Corruption Guidelines are available to all employees,
business partners and members of our governance bodies on the
­Volks­wa­gen portal as well as the Internet.
23

VV In 2014 over 185,000 participants
attended courses on compliance-related
topics.
Checks, Audits, Sanctions and Data Protection
Group Internal Audit regularly and systematically reviews processes within the Company, using approaches such as the internationally recognized COSO Enterprise Risk Management framework. It also carries out random checks irrespective of any
suspicion of non-compliance and investigates whenever breaches
are actually suspected.
The worldwide ombudsman system in place since 2006 can be used to
confidentially report corruption, fraudulent activities, or other serious irregularities (such as human rights violations or ethical misconduct) in ten different languages to two external lawyers appointed by
the Group. Naturally, the people providing the information need not
fear being punished by the Company for doing so. As of December
2014, there is also the option of using an additional online channel to
communicate with the ombudsmen. A technically secure digital mailbox allows suspected breaches to be reported – anonymously, if so
­desired. In 2014, the ombudsmen passed on 51 reports by people –
whose details remained confidential if requested – to the V
­ olks­wa­gen
Group’s Anti-Corruption Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit. In
addition, the Anti-Corruption Officer received information on a further 89 cases directly. One case was identified by the person reporting it as a possible human rights violation. During local internal
­audits of the brands and Group companies, 365 reports of suspected
fraud were submitted. All information is followed up. All breaches
of the law or internal regulations are appropriately punished. In
2014 action was taken against a total of 132 employees across the
­Volks­wa­gen Group as a result of findings of investigations based on
information received. In 72 of these cases worldwide, the employee’s
contract was terminated. Moreover, during the reporting year, 16
contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed
­because of infringements related to corruption.

V V CO M P L I A N C E T R A I N I N G CO U R S E S

Participants from the Group

2014

2013

Classroom training
Code of Conduct

30,412

28,420

Anti-corruption

20,607

13,494

Competition and antitrust law

11,279

4,202

Money-laundering prevention

6,852

2,585

Human rights

6,011

881

31,529

69,426

106,690

119,008

Other compliance topics
Total participants
E-Learning programs
Code of Conduct / human rights

43,766

43,039

Anti-corruption

27,596

31,608

Competition and antitrust law

3,248

1,224

Money-laundering prevention

4,574

2,678

Other compliance topics
Total participants

n/a

4,917

79,184

83,466

Across all regions, 5,728 managers participated in classroom training
and E-Learning programs on the topic of anti-corruption.
On the topic of human rights, more than 6,000 employees worldwide received
in 128 hours of training distributed across 329 classroom training courses. In addition,
employees can learn more about this topic using our online E-Learning programs.

47

E CO N O MY

R AT I N GS A N D I N D E X ES

The basis for the auditing program of Group Internal Audit and
of 19 other local audit functions at the brands and affiliated
companies is provided by a risk-oriented assessment of the
Group’s core business processes. The business processes of all
­Volks­wa­gen Group companies are systematically classified in
terms of risks which, from the point of view of the auditors, are
relevant to the audit. The topics with the highest risk levels are
integrated into the auditing programs. In 2014 a total of 1,723
audits were conducted at 304 companies. Among other things,
the audits also examine internal control mechanisms for the
prevention of corruption (four-eye principle, segregation of
functions), the existence of compliance guidelines and preventive measures.
Another aspect of the audit function is advising the specialist areas
of the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group. In particular, this helps define processes and ensures they are designed in compliance with internal
standards and can be applied worldwide.
In addition, Group Internal Audit has set up a Continuous Monitoring unit. It is tasked not least with supporting the effectiveness of
the internal control system, based on structured data analysis of
the financial systems. This allows potential weak spots to be discovered quickly, preventing major damage from occurring.
Data protection, i.e. ensuring the privacy of personal data, is an
important corporate principle. With this in mind, the data protection organization in the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group is continuously being
enhanced and progressively networked. It is active on three levels:
Group (Group data protection office), brand (brand spokesperson
for data protection), and Group companies (data protection officers or contacts).
The aim of the Group-wide data protection organization is to provide a uniformly high level of protection for personal data within
the ­Volks­wa­gen Group. In addition, the organization provides a
basis for the standardization and regular adaptation of data protection requirements in the Group, for example in the cases of
­networked vehicles and Group-wide IT systems.
Further information on compliance at the ­Volks­wa­gen Group can
be found in the 2014 Annual Report.
24

The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group can point to a growing number of investors
who take sustainability criteria into account. These include some
100 European mutual funds that apply social and ecological criteria. One of the largest institutional investors in Europe, the state
Norwegian pension fund, invested more than €5.5 million in the
­Volks­wa­gen Group. These investment decisions are influenced by
positive sustainability assessments from ratings agencies and analysts.

Top Scores for Group and Brands
In 2014 the ­Volks­wa­gen Group earned very good scores in the most
important international ratings and relevant indexes, holding a
leading position in its sector. In the sustainability ratings published by RobecoSAM, the Group was listed in both the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index World and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Europe, receiving 88 points out of 100. However, we no longer held
the position of sector leader.
In the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP ), the Group was again listed in both Leadership Indexes, receiving the top A rating in the
CDP Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership Index and 99
points out of 100 in the CDP Global 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
As in the previous year, M A N was the only German company from
the mechanical engineering sector listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Europe. The CDP awarded M A N its highest ratings in the “Industrials” sector: 97 out of a possible 100 points in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index and an A rating in the Climate Performance
Leadership Index.
oekom research, a rating agency which analyzes sustainable investments, rated the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group B- on a twelve-step scale
from A+ to D-. Both the Group and Scania were awarded Prime status, meaning they are recommended as sustainable investments.
oekom research rates the environmental and social responsibility
performance of companies using more than 100 criteria selected
specifically for each sector.

­Volks­w a­gen Compliance provides information at the 2014 International
Suppliers’ Fair (IZB ) in Wolfsburg.

In a new approach to training, participants team up to resolve compliance
issues in a GRC board game.

48

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

PRODUCT RESPONSIBILIT Y

L O C A L VA L U E A D D E D

SUPPLIER M ANAGEMENT

CO M P L I A N C E

R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

V V R A N K I N G S I N R AT I N G S A N D I N D E X E S

Index/rating

Ranking 2014

CDP Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership Index
CDP Global 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index
CDP Supplier Climate Performance Leadership Index

Ranking 2013

listed (A)

listed (A)

listed, 99 points out of 100

listed, 99 points out of 100

Listed (A)

Listed (A)

Dow Jones Sustainability Index World

listed, 88 points out of 100

listed, 89 points out of 100

Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe

listed, 88 points out of 100

listed, 89 points out of 100

ECPI Ethical Indices (Europe, EMU , Global)

listed

listed

Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Europe

listed

listed

Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index

listed

listed

Global Compact 100

listed

listed

prime status (B-)

prime status (B-)

listed

listed

oekom research
STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices (Environmental, Social, Governance)

49

PEOPLE
CO NTE NT S
54

Essay Dr. Horst Neumann

56

Management Approach

57

Qualification within the Berufsfamilien

62

Performance and Participation

66

Health and Fitness

69

Advancing Women and Diversity

72

S ocial Responsibility

78

Interview Bernd Osterloh

­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROUP EMPLOYEES BY REGION  ­
2014­

438,631
E U RO P E
(2013: 424,964)

86,752
ASIA
(2013: 78,672)

59,790
AMERICAS
(2013: 61,796)

6,330
AFRICA
(2013: 6,356)

1,083
AU ST R A L I A
(2013: 1,012)

EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
­I NDEX ACROSS THE GROUP
2014

FEMALE EMPLOYEES
ACROSS THE GROUP
2014, in %

APPRENTICES WITH THE
GROUP IN GERMANY
2014 , in %

79

15.7

4.8

(2013: 79)

(2013: 15.5%)

(2013: 4.8%)

PEOPLE

Essay

“I N DUS T RY 4. 0” –
A M A JOR E M PL OY M E N T
­O PP ORT U N I T Y
Digitization is increasingly shaping the world of work.
Future analysts at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology are tracking the breathtaking pace at which
computer technology is developing and have dubbed
this “the Second Machine Age”. At the same time, “In­
dustry 4.0” – the way in which machines, products and
humans will interact in future – is a major focus of
­attention for engineers, management and IT experts,
production specialists, trade union officials and pol­
iticians alike. They are modelling scenarios in which
man and machine work “fist-in-glove” or in which the
factories of tomorrow are run entirely by machines. But
how realistic are these scenarios? And will they be a
blessing or a curse? It is neither realistic nor desirable
to envisage factories without human beings. However,
anyone who visits trade fairs, research labs, top-rank­
ing universities or pilot plants at industrial companies
can see that we are on the threshold of a further para­
digm shift in automation. The astonishing pace at

which digitization and networking are developing has
triggered a surge of innovation in robotics, and over the
next few years, robots will become significantly more
efficient and safer.

“We have the opportuni­
t y to do away with uner­
gonomic work , increase
the proportion of skilled
jobs we offer and drive
down our production
costs, while also safe­
guarding employ ment.”
More than five million people in Germany currently
work in industry; V
­ olks­wa­gen alone employs 120,000
people in the production sector. So will further automa­
tion mean a renewed rise in unemployment? The an­
swer is no. Demographic trends over the next 20 years
will actually help us safeguard jobs. Between 1955 and
1975, a combination of Germany’s “economic miracle”
and the baby boom produced two decades of above-­
average population and employment growth. And the
impact was particularly marked at ­Volks­wa­gen: when
demand for the Golf soared in the 1970s, we recruited
above-average numbers of new employees. Conse­
quently, between 2015 and 2030, we will be seeing a
disproportionate number of older employees moving
into retirement: some 32,000 more than the long-term
average across the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group. This gives us the
opportunity to replace some human employees with
54

PEOPLE

Essay

r­ obots while at the same time maintaining our existing
recruitment levels. We could not, in any case, have
­replaced all these retirees with young people. So in
terms of employment policy we can afford another
surge in automation. But why should we welcome that
or even encourage it? There are two reasons. First, we
want to offer good, skilled work to all our employees. To
date we have done our utmost to make assembly-line
jobs as ergonomic as possible, but some jobs are oner­
ous and will stay that way. It takes concentration and
precision to feed eight drops of oil into six points on one
camshaft after another for seven hours a day. It’s also
monotonous and tiring – or in other words: hard work.
Assembly work in the vehicle interior, the positioning
of components and working overhead are further jobs
that will not be missed when there are better ways of
­doing them. And there are. If we have an opportunity to
eliminate unergonomic work and to leave it to robots,
we should do so.

­offensive at V
­ olks­wa­gen. We are equipping our employ­
ees with the fundamental digital skills they will need
as well as with the specific technical skills for their par­
ticular “Berufsfamilie” or professional family. These
new skills are in areas such as programming and the
use of networked applications, online diagnostics and
real-time analysis, networked collaboration, and the
use of learning platforms.

“In Germany, we have
the opportunit y to use
our streng th s to drive
for ward the next wave
of automation.”

“Dig iti zation and
­n et ­w orking will tran sform
our training profession s.
We are ­a lready upgrading
our vocational education
and training accordingly.”

The second reason for driving forward automation is
our labor cost structure. Labor costs in Germany’s au­
tomotive industry are more than €40 per hour, com­
pared with €11 in Eastern Europe and less than €10 in
China. No one seriously believes that we can signifi­
cantly reduce the competitive disadvantage that such
high wage costs imply. But we would not want to do so
either: after all, we want our skilled workers to be able
to afford a decent car, to give just one example. So what
does a robot cost by comparison? The robots already in
use at V
­ olks­wa­gen cost between €3 and €6 per hour, a
figure that includes maintenance and energy costs.
And future generations of robots will probably cost even
less. We have to make use of that cost advantage. And
that is why at ­Volks­wa­gen we are driving forward auto­
mation with moderation, using it to benefit our employ­
ees and reduce onerous work. Other sectors, too, can
follow this path. “Industry 4.0” has the ability both to
modernize the economy and to improve the quality of
employment. The good news is that Germany’s demo­
graphic situation is making these changes sustainable
in employment terms as well.

In future, there will be more skilled work available in
our factories than there is now. Robots and networked
production equipment need to be programmed and
maintained, supervised and reconfigured. The qualifi­
cations of our skilled workers, Meister and engineers
will increase; alongside mechanical and electronic
­engineering skills, IT skills will be increasingly impor­
tant. So the advances in automation will need to be
matched by a surge in initial and in-service training.
And we have already begun that process. New appren­
tices starting their training with ­
Volks­
wa­
gen from
2015 will be acquiring new, job-specific skills, such as
controlling digital systems. Partnering with Germany’s
Federal Institute for Vocational Education and Train­
ing (Bundesinstitut für Berufsbildung, or BIBB), we
have launched an initiative to develop new training
­professions for the digital world of work. And 2015 will
also see the rollout of a wide-ranging qualification

Dr. Horst Neumann
Member of the Group Board of Management responsible for
­Personnel Management and Organization

55

PEOPLE

COMMITTED
TO ­E XCELLENCE.
Our aim is to become the most attractive employer in the automotive sector and to achieve long-term
success through our high-quality ‘top team’ of almost 600,000 employees. Our personnel management policy is underpinned by the principles of fair treatment for our employees and a balance
­between performance, pay and participation. To secure our long-term future, we want to play a part
in shaping tomorrow’s world of work, but our commitment to the principles of fairness and responsibility remains central. And that means giving our employees a share in the Company’s success and
meeting our own corporate social responsibility.

M A N AG E M E N T A PPROACH

knowledge transfer – the passing on of knowledge and experience by our own experts – is another key factor underpinning
our success.

Securing excellent performance, generating success and enabling
employees to share in the profits are central to the Volks­
­­
wa­gen
Group’s personnel management (PM ) strategy. The key aims of
the Group’s PM work are, therefore, qualifying our employees,
promoting their health and fitness, and ensuring that they are
­involved. Over recent years our employees’ hard work has made
­­Volks­wa­gen one of the world’s largest automakers, and that success has gone hand in hand with rapid growth in the number of
employees. Within just five years, the Group’s workforce has
grown from over 399,000 to almost 593,000. The challenge is to
integrate these new employees in the Group, qualify them and
­enable them to add value to the business – a challenge we are meeting with a comprehensive management approach.
Alongside the ongoing internationalization of our Group structure, our response to the changes prompted by growth on this
scale has focused on substantially expanding, upgrading and
standardizing training right across the Group. Our approach
is to embed learning and teaching within “Berufsfamilien”
(professional families) in line with Germany’s dual model of
­vocational education and training, which ensures close longterm coordination between theory and practice. Systematic

The Guidelines behind the Way We Do Business
As a global undertaking with 118 production locations across
­Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa, we have wide-ranging
­experience of cultural differences, approaches and worldviews.
­­­Volks­wa­gen is committed to respect, tolerance and cosmopolitanism and guarantees equal opportunities and equal treatment at all
its locations. We are also committed to sustainable development in
the towns, cities and regions in which we operate, a commitment
that takes many different forms.
A range of voluntary undertakings and bilateral agreements with
our employees and their representatives codify the fundamental
standards, employee rights and arrangements for cooperation
that apply across the Group:
>> The ­­Volks­wa­gen Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct came
into operation in 2010 and creates the framework for lawful and
ethical behavior.
9
>> The Declaration on Social Rights and Industrial Relations
at ­­Volks­wa­gen (the ­­Volks­wa­gen Social Charter). In 2002,
­­Volks­wa­gen used this Declaration to document the basic social
rights and principles that underpin its corporate identity. These
social rights and principles are based on relevant International
Labour Organization Conventions. A revised version of the
­Social Charter was signed in 2012.
25
>> The ­­Volks­wa­gen Global Labour Charter. The Charter came
into force in autumn 2009 and combines greater rights to consultation with shared responsibilities. It provides for rights to
information, consultation and codetermination for employee

V V AC T I O N A R E A S COV E R E D BY T H I S C H A P T E R :

Attractiveness as an employer
Training
Participation
Health
Diversity and equality
Corporate responsibility

56

M A N AG E M E N T A P P R O A C H

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

representatives within the brands, companies and locations
represented on the Group Global Works Council.
26
>> The Charter on Temporary Work. In November 2012, Group
management, the European Works Council and the Group Global Works Council agreed a Charter on Temporary work, which
sets out the principles for managing temporary work.
27

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

Work for Chinese Graduates in 2014” award presented by the
­Chinese Ministry of Education and the country’s Center for Information, Advice, Higher Education, Careers and Employment. In
South Africa, the Top Employers Institute ranked ­­Volks­wa­gen of
South Africa the country’s top employer for the fourth consecutive
year in 2014. In the USA , ­­Volks­wa­gen Chattanooga received
the “Best Place to Work” award for the second year running, while
in Mexico, V
­­ olks­wa­gen de México was the only automotive company
to be recognized in a national student survey, “Empresa de los
sueños de los jóvenes” (“Young people’s dream company”).

Employment Trends
These systems for formally implementing employment rights and
guidelines are particularly important as V
­­ olks­wa­gen continues to
grow. In 2014, the workforce of the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group, including
the Chinese joint ventures, increased by 3.5% to 592,586 as at
­December 31, 2014. Significant factors in this increase were
workforce expansion in growth markets, particularly in China,
and the recruitment of skilled workers and experts in Germany
and elsewhere. Also in 2014, V
­­ olks­wa­gen AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen Sachsen
GmbH, ­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG , AUDI AG and MA N and
Porsche in Germany took a total of 8,131 temporary employees into
the core workforce in Germany.
The internationalization of the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group is also reflected in a significantly higher number of international postings.
Over the past ten years, the number of foreign service employees
(those who are working outside their home country) within the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group has more than doubled. If the new brands and
companies – Scania, MA N , Ducati, Porsche and Porsche Holding –
are also included, the increase was even higher, at 141%.

VV The ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy
groups together 13 individual Berufs­
familien Academies.
Q UA L I F I C AT I O N WI T H I N T H E B E RU F S FA M I L I E N
The provision of initial and in-service training to the highest
standards across the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group is immensely important
for our enduring success as a top technology company. Qualification and personnel development for ­­Volks­wa­gen Group employees
is based on the concept of professional families (“Berufsfamilien”).
A “Berufsfamilie” includes all employees with shared expertise
whose jobs require related skills. The Berufsfamilie is, therefore,
the specialist “home” of every individual employee within the
Group, from apprentices right up to senior experts, and the skills
requirements of each Berufsfamilie determine individual employees’ needs for qualification. At almost all brands and companies
these needs are identified at least once a year in the individual employee appraisal or qualification appraisal. Learning and teaching in Berufsfamilien follow the dual model of vocational education and training, in which theory and practice are closely linked.
This form of qualification requires a high level of organization.
Training “Academies” are in place for a growing number of
Berufsfamilien and organize cooperative learning across brands
and locations. Qualification within the 36 Berufsfamilien currently takes place at 13 Berufsfamilien Academies. These are
grouped under the umbrella of the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group Academy,
whose aim is to leverage synergies and ensure an outstanding level
of qualification across the Group.

Group and Brands Ranked Top Employers
Our continuing success and our systematic approach to personnel
management are also making us increasingly attractive as an
­employer. Once again, 2014 saw the Group securing leading
­positions in a number of employer rankings. A survey among
­future management experts by the consultancy company trendence, for example, saw the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group move from fifth to
second most attractive European employer. A total of more than
300,000 engineering, IT and business studies graduates from 24
European countries took part in the trendence surveys, voting us
most attractive employer in the automotive sector.
In other countries, ­­Volks­wa­gen Group brands and companies
achieved excellent rankings in a wide range of employer attractiveness surveys. In Germany, according to trendence, Audi was voted
the most popular employer by engineering graduates for the fifth
consecutive year, for example, while the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Passenger
Cars brand achieved third place among business studies graduates
and fourth place among engineering graduates. Elsewhere in
­Europe, ­­Volks­wa­gen-Audi España was named top employer in a
­national survey, while automotive and mechanical engineering
students once again voted ŠKODA the most attractive employer in
the Czech Republic. In the UK , the Top Employers Institute awarded Bentley Motors Ltd. “Top Employer United Kingdom” status for
the third consecutive year. In China, the Top Employers Institute
voted Shanghai ­­Volks­wa­gen and FAW -­­Volks­wa­gen “Top Employers
China” in 2014. FAW -­­Volks­wa­gen also won the “Best Enterprise to

Vocational Education and Training in Line
with the Dual Model
Vocational education and training at ­­Volks­wa­gen is based on the
dual model, and from the very first day, our apprentices are trained
within a Berufsfamilie. The apprentices alternate regularly between blocks of classroom learning in a vocational school, periods
in a training center and a range of assignments within a plant.
This ensures that they have the best possible preparation for their
future employment as young specialists or skilled workers within
the relevant Berufsfamilie.

57

PEOPLE

Hands-on experience days provide young people with an insight into various professions as well as vocational education and training opportunities with the Group.

Each year, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG invites school students to hands-on
e­ xperience days. Current apprentices and trainers brief them on
what is involved in the various technical and commercial training
professions and dual apprenticeships offered by Volks­
­­
wa­gen. In
2014, hands-on experience days were held in Wolfsburg, Hanover,
Braunschweig, Kassel, Emden and Salzgitter. Similar information events were also staged by the Audi, Porsche and MA N brands.

qualification program won it the Business Prize of the Chamber
of Foreign Trade for Spain and the Francesc Maciá award, the
­Catalan government’s top award for outstanding performance in
the area of employment. Since 2012, we have also been building
on existing close cooperation with China’s Ministry of Education
in the area of vocational education and training. As part of this
­cooperation, China’s Minister of Education, Prof. Guiren Yuan,
visited ­­Volks­wa­gen’s Wolfsburg plant in October 2014. ­­Volks­wa­gen
AG will be supporting the construction of further competence
centers for teacher training in China.

Dual Vocational Education and Training Goes Global
Just how seriously we take our responsibility for the next generation is demonstrated by the importance that ­­Volks­wa­gen assigns
to vocational education and training. In December 2014, the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group was training 18,459 apprentices and students
around the world in some 60 professions and 50 dual apprenticeships. ­­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen Osnabrück GmbH and
­­Volks­wa­gen Sachsen GmbH alone trained 5,418 apprentices in
more than 30 professions and some 20 dual apprenticeships, once
again more than in the previous year. In recent years the Group
has rolled out the dual model of vocational education and training
in many locations outside Germany. Over three-quarters of all
­apprentices within the Group are currently being trained in line
with this system, not only in Germany but also in Spain, Hungary,
Russia, the USA , Mexico, India and China. A ceremony held in
­October 2014 saw the 43 best former apprentices from a total of
18 countries and 38 locations receive “Best Apprentice” awards.
For the first time, former apprentices from ­­Volks­wa­gen India,
­­Volks­wa­gen Group of America and ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Retail
Deutschland were among those receiving awards.
In 2012, SEAT became the first Spanish company to instigate dual
vocational education and training, and in 2014, the company’s

V V S P E C I A L VO C AT I O N A L E D U C AT I O N A N D T R A I N I N G P R O J E C T S

Competition: The ProMechaniker competition gives apprentice motor
vehicle mechatronic technicians with ­­Volks­wa­gen AG an opportunity
to display and develop their technical skills. Requirements for taking
part are a high level of commitment and motivation, excellent performance as an apprentice, and an interest in motor racing. The competition was held for the fifth time in 2014. The two winners have a
chance to work with the service team for the Scirocco R Cup series.
Vehicle development: Projects including the design of the Golf GTI
Wolfsburg Edition and the ŠKODA CitiJet are further examples of
the practical vocational education and training acquired by
­­Volks­wa­gen Group apprentices. Twelve apprentices were involved
throughout the process from initial brainstorming to the launch of
the Golf GTI Wolfsburg Edition, contributing their know-how and
creativity and developing not only their specialist knowledge but
also their teamworking skills. The ŠKODA CitiJet is the brainchild of

58

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

the “Azubi Car” (“Apprentice Car”) project, a training project launched
in 2014. This sporty convertible was built by 16 young apprentices
from the ŠKODA AUTO vocational school.

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

V V TO M O R R OW ’ S W O R L D O F W O R K

The ­­Volks­wa­gen Group in Germany is taking the lead in modernizing the training professions and spearheading the digitization of the
world of work. Experts from the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy joined
forces with their counterparts in Germany’s Federal Institute for
­Vocational Education and Training (BIBB) at the end of 2014 to assess where the profiles of the different professions need amending
and formulate proposals for the future orientation of vocational
­education and training – initially in Germany and subsequently in
other countries too.

“A year’s support”: Since 2012, Porsche has been running a program
entitled “Förderjahr” (“A year’s support”), governed by collective
agreement and offering disadvantaged young people the opportunity to undergo formal skills training. Over a period of ten
months, participants take part in a skills development program that
prepares them for an apprenticeship. In the first two years, 2012
and 2013, eleven young people began the program. In the meantime, nine participants from the first intake and all eleven from the
second year have successfully completed the course and begun an
apprenticeship. Ten more young people kicked off their “year’s
support” in November 2014.

In-Service Training for Young Skilled Workers
As part of the consistent roll-out of the dual model of vocational
­education and training, young skilled workers are being qualified
through training that closely links theory with on-the-job learning. Here the young people are supported by more experienced
­colleagues. This model for learning in tandem is vital: the best way
of passing on knowledge and experience is face to face. Particularly talented apprentices are supported through “Talent Groups” at
each location. This two-year development and skills training
­program recruits the best ten percent of apprentices from each
year’s intake, with an emphasis on the individual development of
technical excellence.

Commitment: The ­­Volks­wa­gen Group’s commitment to the
Auschwitz Memorial and Museum is recognized around the world.
Six times a year, groups of ­­Volks­wa­gen AG apprentices travel to
Auschwitz to spend two weeks working with young Poles at the
Memorial and Museum; since 2012, apprentices from subsidiaries
and affiliated companies have also been involved in the scheme.
Some 2,600 young Germans and Poles have so far taken part in this
program in the 26 years it has been running. This involvement fosters responsibility and develops apprentices’ powers of judgment,
tolerance and openness to different cultures. Since 2008, separate
groups of managers, management talents and “Meister” (group
leaders) have also been involved.

In October 2014, the Group Board of Management and the Group Global Works Council presented the 14th “Best Apprentice Awards” to the Group’s top
­apprentices. Awards were presented to 11 women and 32 men from a total of 18 countries and 38 locations.

59

PEOPLE

VV In 2014, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG r­ ecruited a total
of 330 graduates in Germany, of whom
around 30% were female.

the ompany and in various locations both in Germany and abroad.
Both StartUp programs also include a placement in the production
sector lasting several weeks. Since 2008, over 3,100 trainees have
gained their first experience of ­­Volks­wa­gen in this way.

Fostering Graduates
­­Volks­wa­gen AG recruits and fosters young graduates though the
Student Talent Bank and the Academic Talent Pool. ­­Volks­wa­gen
has been using the Student Talent Bank since 1998 to bring on
­particularly able students in workplace-related and cross-functional areas. The aim is to boost these former interns’ commitment to the Company and to give them the best possible preparation for embarking on a career with Volks­
­­
wa­gen, for example
through talks and presentations, seminars, and trips.
Shortly before they graduate or complete their doctorate, these
­t alented students are then moved into the Academic Talent Pool, a
recruitment tool that provides the Company with a way to identify
individuals with potential for graduate-level entry into a specialized area within ­­Volks­wa­gen.

V V ENTRY OP TIONS FOR YOUNG ENGINEERS FROM SOUTHERN ­E UROPE

Many young engineering graduates in southern Europe are having
difficulty finding employment despite good qualifications. Since
2012, our StartUp Europe program has been offering them an
­opportunity to start a career. In 2014 the program was extended
to ­Italy. Participants complete a placement with the ­­Volks­wa­gen
Group in their home country and then move to Germany for up to
21 months to work in a Group company there. In 2014, 30 participants were already offered permanent employment in the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group on completing the two-year program. Since the
initiative was launched in 2012, no fewer than 6,700 young people
have applied for a total of 73 places.

StartUp Trainee Programs
Trainees starting their careers with ­­Volks­wa­gen benefit from
­systematic structures such as the StartUp Direct program for graduates, designed to enable trainees to acquire an in-depth familiarization with the area in which they will be working in future.
StartUp Direct trainees also spend two years undertaking a range
of qualification measures, giving them an opportunity to get to
know V
­­ olks­wa­gen in detail and to build their own network.
The StartUp Cross program is aimed at graduates with an international focus. The aim of the 18-month program is to familiarize
trainees with the Company as a whole and to help them build an
extensive national and international network. Trainees therefore
complete project placements of a few weeks in different parts of

Promoting Intercultural Understanding
The ­­Volks­wa­gen Group promotes intercultural understanding
­between young employees through a program enabling them to
work abroad, known as the “Wanderjahre” (years abroad – the
singular is “Wanderjahr”) program. The name alludes to the
t radition among newly-qualified craftsmen of travelling the
­
world and gaining experience. Since 2006, young people at the
start of their career have had the opportunity, on completion of
their training, to spend 12 months working for a Group company
outside their home country. A total of 37 ­­Volks­wa­gen Group
­locations in 19 countries are now involved in this development
program. And for the very first time, one employee started her
Wanderjahr at the plant in Tianjin (China). So far, 456 young
­employees from across the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group have taken up this
­opportunity. In 2014, 51 participants from Germany and eleven
from a further six countries embarked on their Wanderjahre at
one of the Group’s locations.

Numerous Qualification Measures Available
The Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group Academy offers employees a wide range of
qualification measures. Along with general in-service training
courses and qualification within the Berufsfamilien, these also
include personnel management development programs. During
2014, a total of 86,193 participants benefited from 10,196 qualification measures organized by the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy,
representing 214,621 participant-days. In the product technology
and product quality areas, 16,495 participants attended 2,267
in-service training and qualification measures over 36,125 participant-days, while in the field of cross-functional qualification,
35,515 participants attended 2,844 courses over 103,462 participant-days. A total of 334 new programs and training measures

The StartUp Cross program is aimed at graduates with an international
­focus.

60

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

Vocational training is crucial to the development of an outstanding team.

were introduced during the reporting year, ensuring that in-­ ­successful “Manage Responsibly” leadership training program,
service training provision continues to reflect the Company’s first launched in 2012, with trainee managers implementing
­current needs.
MA N ’s Corporate Responsibility and Climate Strategy in their own
areas of responsibility.

Standards for Personnel Development in Leadership
and Management

Training the Trainers

In early 2014, the Volks­
­­
wa­gen, Audi, MA N , SEAT, ŠKODA and
­Porsche brands agreed uniform standards for the personnel development of future leaders and managers within the V
­­ olks­wa­gen
Group. Within ­­Volks­wa­gen Deutschland alone, more than 190
leadership, Meister (group leader) and management qualification
measures were held in 2014, including assessment centers for aspiring managers. Outside Germany, the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy ran a total of some 60 courses for leaders, Meister and managers and assessment centers for aspiring managers in the Czech
Republic, Poland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom and
in Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia, South Africa and the
USA . 2014 saw the ongoing roll-out of personnel development
programs at the Bentley, SEAT and ŠKODA brands. Group
­
­locations outside Germany also staged some 400 qualification
and ­selection events of their own for future leaders and managers. MA N , too, places great emphasis on training its employees
and raising their awareness: MA N Truck & Bus continued its

In 2014, we placed particular emphasis on the cross-locational
and cross-brand qualification of the trainers who deliver our
­programs for leaders, Meister and managers, as well as of the
­a ssessment center facilitators. This will enable us to ensure comparable quality across the Group. The “­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy Campus” initiative, which has been running since 2012, continues to be rolled out and provides a series of events designed to
develop a global pool of trainers and facilitators. In 2014, around
70 participants from around the world took part in two such events.
For the first time, face-to-face training ran alongside online
learning programs and virtual networks for this target group.

Academic In-Service Training at the AutoUni
Under the auspices of the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Academy, the Auto­
Uni provides a source of specialist academic knowledge. It has
nine institutes and works with the Berufsfamilien Academies
and partner universities to provide training for the Group’s

61

PEOPLE

V V P R O M O T I N G T H E N E X T G E N E R AT I O N A N D D E V E L O P I N G TA L E N T – AT A G L A N C E

Program

Target group

Focus

Area

Talent groups for young skilled
workers

Talented young people who have
completed their vocational education and training

Individual development of specialized and
cross-disciplinary skills

­­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen
F­ inancial Services AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen
Sachsen GmbH

“Wanderjahre” program

Qualified apprentices

Promoting intercultural mobility and experience ­­Volks­wa­gen Group

Student Talent Bank

High-performing current students

Developing and engaging potential recruits

­­Volks­wa­gen AG

Academic Talent Pool

High-performing students and
doctoral candidates close to
­completing their studies

Recruitment tool

­­
Volks­
wa­gen AG : Wolfsburg and
Hanover locations

StartUp programs/
trainee programs

University graduates

Company familiarization, promotion and
­development, building national and
­international networks through project work

­­Volks­wa­gen Group

StartUp Europe

Young engineers from Spain,
­Portugal and Italy

Recruitment of international talent, social
commitment

­­Volks­wa­gen Group

e­ xperts and top specialists. Its wide range of training formats
­ensures that the wealth of knowledge held within the Group, at
universities and by private sector experts is passed on and new
knowledge generated. The areas the AutoUni focuses on include
electric traction, i­ nnovative drivetrains, lightweight design and
the sustainability of transport systems. The Institute of Computer Science, set up in 2013, was expanded in 2014 to focus on
two key areas, the digital workplace of the future and IT security.
A ­f urther new institute, the Institute for Quality, was also set up
during the reporting year. The AutoUni is closely involved in a
range of research projects and collaborates with leading international universities, research institutes and research centers on
graduate and postgraduate research. In 2014, the Group supervised over 500 doctoral students working on areas relevant to the
Group in the various ­­Volks­wa­gen Group companies within Germany. The AutoUni, which is based in Wolfsburg, has also made
its courses available outside Germany for some years now. In
2014, for example, its work was extended to locations in Bratislava ­(Slovakia), Mladá Boleslav (Czech Republic) and the Chinese
­locations of Changchun, Shanghai and Beijing. In 2014, around
8,600 people took part in over 180 AutoUni courses. The AutoUni
also supplies more than 750 speakers each year, almost half of
them from the automotive engineering sector.

ensure that the processes are consistent. To provide impetus for
basic research in the area of storage technology, in 2014 the international “Science Award Electrochemistry” was again presented
by ­­Volks­wa­gen and BASF. The award went to Dr. Vanessa Wood
from the ETH in ­Zurich, Switzerland, in recognition of outstanding research findings related to lithium-ion batteries.

PE R F O R M A N CE A N D PA R T I CI PAT I O N
Fair pay and an appropriate share in the Company’s success
­u nderpin the motivation and performance of our employees but
also help to protect jobs and keep us competitive. Employee
­participation and co-determination rights for employee representatives are further key factors in the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group’s
­success, so we engage in dialogue with our employees to set standards for good work.

V V FA I R PAY A N C H O R E D I N S O C I A L C H A R T E R

In line with our Social Charter, all remuneration and benefits for a
normal working week should be at least in line with the enforceable
statutory minimum and should ensure that our employees and
their families have an appropriate standard of living. When setting
collectively agreed pay, the employer and the trade unions ensure
that starting pay is in line with local minimum rates of pay. We
make no distinction between female and male employees. Our first
overseas plant to implement this, the ­­Volks­wa­gen do Brasil facility
in Anchieta, is a beacon in this respect: the parties to the collective
agreement agreed that starting pay for shop floor workers should
be equivalent to 2.21 times Brazil’s statutory minimum wage.

Networking Academic Knowledge
The AutoUni supports doctoral students by providing seminars on
academic writing, while its doctoral colloquium offers them the
opportunity to present their work-in-progress to a Group-wide
­audience and discuss their theses. AutoUni also advises and
­supports the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group in identifying appropriate academic partners from within research and teaching. It networks
the individuals responsible for university contacts within the
Group to create synergies between brands and companies and to
62

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

Recognizing Performance and Sharing Profits
The systematic fostering and recognition of good performance is a
vital element in our personnel management strategy, along with
redesigning our pay system to ensure that employees have a sustainable share in the success and profits of the Company. Since
2010, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG has had detailed standard criteria for skills
development and performance assessment. These criteria cover
the entire workforce, from apprentices to top managers, and are
underpinned by concrete incentive systems within a three-tier pay
system:
>> basic pay in the form of a competitive monthly salary
>> a performance-related component, which rewards individual
performance
>> an entitlement to profit-sharing, which is laid down by collective
agreement
As part of the introduction of a performance-related pay component, it was
agreed that each employee of ­­Volks­wa­gen AG, ­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG
and ­­Volks­wa­gen Immobilien Service GmbH should have an annual appraisal with
his or her line manager.

This three-tier remuneration system is increasingly being rolled
out across the Group. It gives us transparent criteria for recognizing good performance on the part of our employees and enables
them to participate appropriately in the Company’s success. In
2014, employees at more than 30 Group locations benefited from
profit-sharing, including those in China, Mexico, Poland, Russia
and Spain.

The LTI is calculated over a four-year period, making it the component that reflects sustainable development by the Company. Components of this kind were required by the 2009 legislation on
­remuneration of Board of Management members, but the LTI is
applied more widely at the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group to the whole of its
management. The Long Term Incentive is linked directly to the
goals set out in the Group’s Strategy 2018: top employer status and
top ratings for customer satisfaction, sales and profitability.

Annual Appraisal
As part of the introduction of a performance-related pay component, it was agreed that each employee of ­­
Volks­
wa­
gen AG ,
­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG and ­­Volks­wa­gen Immobilien
Service GmbH should have an annual appraisal with his or her
line manager. This appraisal has two components, performance
assessment and development planning. Recognizing and valuing
good performance is just as important in this context as identifying individual potential or specific further training needs. Since
2013, all temporary external personnel employed at Volks­
­­
wa­gen
AG have also benefited from a performance-related pay component from their second year with ­­Volks­wa­gen. The process by
which this component is determined is similar to the individual
annual employee appraisal process for V
­­ olks­wa­gen employees.
The system of appraisals, which is linked in part to a performance-related pay component, is gradually being rolled out across
Group brands and companies. It was introduced for all employees
covered by collective bargaining at Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group Rus in
­K aluga (Russia) in 2013 and at Bentley Motors Ltd. in Crewe
(United Kingdom) in 2014.

V V CO L L E C T I V E AG R E E M E N T S I N 2 01 4

There was no collective bargaining within the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group in
Germany in 2014, but 12 collective agreements were concluded at
locations outside Germany. In some cases, there was a move towards long-term agreements that protect employment and boost
competitiveness. For example, ­­Volks­wa­gen Slovakia, Sitech Polska
and ­­Volks­wa­gen India all signed agreements running for more than
30 months.

Flexibility and Employment Security
Within the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group we use a wide range of flexibility
tools to help maintain competitiveness and protect jobs. In 2014,
we again responded rapidly to changes in the business environment. Some 200 Portuguese production staff from Volks­
­­
wa­gen
Autoeuropa continued to work at ­­Volks­wa­gen AG in Wolfsburg.
­Under the collective agreement on sustainable site retention and
employment security, all ­­Volks­wa­gen AG employees enjoy employment security.

Long-Term Incentive for Management
The pay for management employees across the Group includes
three variable components:
>> t he personal performance bonus,
>> the Company bonus and
>> the Long Term Incentive (LTI ), introduced in 2010.

63

PEOPLE

Employing Former Apprentices

brands and companies represented on the Group Global Works
Council. The rights it guarantees employee representatives relate,
among other areas, to personnel management and industrial
­relations provisions, work organization, remuneration systems,
information and communications, initial and in-service training, occupational health and safety, process controlling, and
social and environmental sustainability. The Group Global
­
Works Council and Company management regularly monitor
­i mplementation of the Charter on Labour Relations in individual
Group companies.

­­ olks­wa­gen AG is bound by an agreement that provides for apprenV
tices to be given permanent employment on completion of their
training, subject to specific performance criteria. Former apprentices who do not meet these criteria are initially offered a two-year
fixed-term contract. After two years, the performance assessment
that forms part of their individual annual appraisal and regular
feedback are used to decide whether to take them on permanently.

VV RECRU ITI N G LO C A L PE R S O N N E L

Local Implementation of Co-Determination
Since the Charter on Labour Relations was introduced in 2009,
management and employee representatives at many locations outside Germany have negotiated declarations of intent and outlined
implementation arrangements. 2014 also saw new plant-level
agreements being concluded at ŠKODA India and ­­Volks­wa­gen
­Sarajevo. Other Group locations, such as the ŠKODA plant in
Kvasiny in the Czech Republic, held inaugural works meetings.
Employees at the ­­Volks­wa­gen plant in Kaluga (Russia) elected
­social partners to represent their concerns. And in many locations, including ­­Volks­wa­gen Group Italia and MA N in Steyr (Austria), the work of local employee representatives is now being
­organized within special committees and was stepped up in 2014.
Many locations also held training workshops in 2014 to help employee representatives to implement the Charter on Labour Relations locally: these included MA N Steyr, ­­Volks­wa­gen Navarra,
­­Volks­wa­gen Sarajevo and ­­Volks­wa­gen India Pune alongside workshops for the sales and financial services companies Volks­
­­
wa­gen
Group Italia and V
­­ olks­wa­gen Group Polska.

­­
Volks­
wa­gen supports the recruitment and qualification of local personnel as a way of developing the local communities and regions in
which we operate. This applies for example at the new Audi México
plant and at the new plant in Urumqi (China), where we plan to
­employ the groups that make up the region’s population on a pro
rata basis.

Participation and Co-Determination
Within the Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group there are many different forms of
employee representation, but in most cases, employees are represented in two ways: by their trade union, and by a company representative body. Most of these company bodies are elected by all
­local employees and so represent the interests of the employees
within the Company. Trade unions primarily represent the interests of their members. This principle of twin representation of
­employees has proved successful across the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group.
When substantial changes are being planned in the Company,
employee representatives are involved in the process from an early
stage, a provision that is written into the global agreement on cooperation between Group management, the Group European Works
Council and the Group Global Works Council.

Developing Employee Representation Structures
An agreement was signed at Group Global Works Council level
in 2014 providing for a Mechanical Engineering Committee
to be convened, comprising employee representatives from
­­Volks­wa­gen AG , MA N Diesel & Turbo SE , and Renk AG . This joins
the Commercial Vehicles Committee, which was set up in 2012 to
bring together employee representatives from the Scania, MA N
and ­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles brands, and the Sales and
Financial Services Committee, set up in 2008. To improve the
­situation of workers, working conditions, participation rights
and employment security in the Group’s Chinese joint ventures, a
­L iaison and Coordinating Committee was set up back in 2008,
which meets twice a year and discusses industrial relations within the Group in China. It also discusses a wide range of specialist
issues, such as the Global Charter on Labour Relations, occupational safety, and vocational education and training.

V V T R A D E U N I O N O RG A N I Z AT I O N

The shop floor employees in 98% of all fully consolidated
­­­Volks­wa­gen Group companies are represented by a trade union or
covered by collective agreement. At the Audi México plant in San
José Chiapa, which is still under construction, the newly created
trade union SITAUDI was officially registered in December 2013.

Charter on Labour Relations
Charter on Temporary Work

The Group-wide International Charter on Labour Relations first
came into force in 2009. It sets out the practical implementation
of the right to participation and links increased participation
rights with shared responsibility. The Charter applies internationally and provides for phased rights to information, consultation and co-determination for employee representatives of the

The Charter on Temporary Work, signed in November 2012, represents agreement between Group management, the Group European Works Council and the Group Global Works Council on the
key principles governing the use of temporary work across the
Group. The main provisions of the Charter relate to:
64

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

Employee Satisfaction Index – Alongside the employee response rate, the key indicator generated by the Employee Opinion Survey is the Employee Satisfaction
Index,, which is compiled from the responses to 11 questions. During the reporting year, the score on this indicator was 79 out of 100, the same as in 2013.

>> The reasonable use of temporary work as a key flexibility tool
>> Implementation of equal pay with reference to the standard
­basic salary
>> Implementation of equal treatment: temporary external personnel should enjoy parity of employment conditions and training
provision with the core workforce

­motivational tool and has been an integral part of ­­Volks­wa­gen’s
culture of improvement for the past 65 years. The ideas management process also helps to make working at V
­­ olks­wa­gen both safer
and healthier.

V V I D E A S M A N AG E M E N T I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P *

This Charter offers all temporary external personnel the chance to
be moved on to a permanent contract provided they have the necessary skills and the Company has a need for those skills.

2014

2013

Ideas suggested

463,042

532,053

Suggestions implemented

306,432

412,795

The Employee Opinion Survey

Savings (€ million)

324.4

312.5

The Group-wide Employee Opinion Survey, or “Stimmungsbarometer”, regularly measures employee satisfaction. Once the
survey is complete, the findings are jointly discussed by supervisors and employees, focusing on complaints and problems as well
as on suggestions for improving work organization. Together,
­supervisors and employees define the necessary measures required to trigger and implement change. The employee opinion
survey was conducted for the seventh time in 2014. The survey
­covered 150 locations and companies in 44 countries. Out of the
more than 490,000 employees at the brands and companies that
have already implemented the employee opinion survey, over
440,000 employees took part. This equates to a response rate of 89
percent, which was the same as in 2013. Companies taking part
for the first time in 2014 included Porsche Leipzig GmbH, subsidiaries of Porsche AG , Ducati Motor Holding spa, MA N Diesel &
­Turbo, MA N Latin America, V
­­ olks­wa­gen Automatic Transmission
(Tianjin), Volks­
­­
wa­gen R & Accessory China, and ŠKODA Auto
Deutschland.
28

Bonuses (€ million)

35.2

34.9

* 31 participating production locations (2013: 31) as per December 31, 2014.

The “­­Volks­wa­gen Way”
The “­­Volks­wa­gen Way” is a central and successful tool for securing
continuous improvement. At its core is a process of continuous improvement that aims permanently to develop productivity and
quality as well as ergonomics, leadership and teamwork. In 2014,
the focus was on optimizing overarching workflows. In July 2014,
the first “­­Volks­wa­gen Way” symposium was held for the Technical
Development department at the Wolfsburg plant.

Company Benefits
We want to offer many of our employees the opportunity to drive a
vehicle from at least one Group brand and are continually improving the framework for doing this. The terms of this benefit must be
affordable for the employee and commercially viable for the
brands.
Employees of Group companies around the world also enjoy further company benefits: these may include subsidized transport
and meals, low-cost accommodation, monthly childcare allowances, and discounts on selected leisure activities. Additional

Ideas Management
Under the Ideas Management program our employees use their
creativity, knowledge and initiative to improve both processes
and products. Ideas management is a vital management and
65

PEOPLE

health care benefits round off the range of company benefits.
Since 2014, employees at ­­Volks­wa­gen AG , AUDI AG and a further
nine Group companies in Germany have benefited from reduced-price rail travel under the “Job-Ticket” scheme. ­­Volks­wa­gen
AG also contributes to the benefits provided by social insurance
schemes, such as sick pay, and supports dependents when an
­employee dies. The Company also has a collective accident insurance policy that covers all employees against accidents resulting in
death or invalidity. In exceptional cases of economic hardship,
­­Volks­wa­gen AG grants employees a short-term loan.

throughout their working lives. In consultation with the
­­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars, Audi and ­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial
Vehicles brands, we have produced a handbook to underpin a
standardized approach to ergonomics in the product development
process, known by its German acronym as “PEP ”. The handbook is
due to be rolled out across further brands in 2015.
The online system “Massnahmen@web” (“measures@web”, the
Group’s system for documenting, following-up and assessing
­optimization measures) enables an interdisciplinary team of editors to disseminate examples of good practice throughout the
Group. At “Ergonomics Days”, experts present ergonomic innovations from the locations. AUDI AG staged an ergonomics fair at
its Neckarsulm plant as part of the “Wir für uns. Aktiv in die
­Zukunft” (“Helping ourselves. Preparing for an active future”)
strategy. At ­­­Volks­wa­gen’s Wolfsburg plant, meanwhile, an inaugural “­ Ergonomics Day” showcased sector-specific logistics solutions. Along with ergonomics in the production and logistics
­sectors, activities were also staged to foster office ergonomics.
­E xamples include new lighting concepts and a teaching film on
healthy postures for people with sedentary jobs.

The Company Pension Plan
­­ olks­wa­gen AG , all its brands and all its subsidiaries in Germany
V
run company pension plans to ensure that former employees have
a source of income in retirement. At ­­Volks­wa­gen AG , the arrangements comprise a basic pension and contributory pensions I and
II . The basic pension and contributory pension I are employer-funded, while contributory pension II offers employees an opportunity to convert part of their pre-tax salary into pension contributions. Since 2001, payments to ­­Volks­wa­gen AG ’s Company
pension plan have been invested in the capital markets by the
scheme, which is administered in trust by the V
­­ olks­wa­gen Pension
Trust e. V. By the end of 2014, 22 other Group companies in Germany were also using these arrangements. Employees can also
make direct contributions to their own pension provision by converting a proportion of their salary into pension contributions.

Free Health Checkups
The Checkup is a free, comprehensive preventive medical examination available at all locations in Germany and around the world.
It helps maintain and improve the health, fitness and performance of the workforce. Employees value the high diagnostic
quality of the checkups.

VV TH E TI M E A SSE T B O N D
V V C H E C K U P S W I T H I N T H E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P 2 01 4

­­
Volks­
wa­gen AG’s Time Asset Bond is a scheme to reduce the length
of an employee’s working life. Since 1998, the Bond has offered employees the chance to contribute to it out of their gross salary or
their working time credits. Their contributions are invested in the
capital markets by the Time Asset Fund, which is administered in
trust by the ­­Volks­wa­gen Pension Trust. The time assets accumulated can then be used to enable employees to take paid time off in
the run-up to retirement.

Company/country

Number of checkups in 2014

­­Volks­wa­gen AG /Germany

16,879

­­Volks­wa­gen do Brasil/Brazil

8,385

­­Volks­wa­gen de México S.A. de C.V./Mexico

4,050

­­Volks­wa­gen Poznań Sp. z.o.o./Poland

1,103

­­Volks­wa­gen Autoeuropa, Lda./Portugal

1,534

­­Volks­wa­gen Navarra, S.A./Spain

2,652

­­Volks­wa­gen Slovakia, a.s./Slovakia

1,529

­­Volks­wa­gen Group South Africa/South Africa

1,570

­­
Volks­
wa­gen Group of America Chattanooga
Operations/USA

H E A LT H A N D F I T N ESS
The V
­­ olks­wa­gen Group’s integrated approach to health management goes well beyond traditional preventive health care and
occupational safety and also includes aspects such as work
­organization, ergonomics, health promotion, integration and
rehabilitation, leadership styles and prospects for each individual. To ensure a common standard of health provision across the
Group, a multi-level audit system was introduced in 2010.

­­Volks­wa­gen Argentina S.A./Argentina
Shanghai ­­Volks­wa­gen Automotive/China
AUDI AG /Germany

170
10,408*
9,498

AUDI BRUSSELS SA /NV/Belgium

Ergonomic Strategies

978

502

AUDI HUNGARIA MOTOR Kft./Hungary

171

Porsche AG (Zuffenhausen, Weissach)/Germany

465

SEAT, S.A./Spain

11,117

ŠKODA AUTO a.s./Czech Republic

18,389
*The Checkup was adapted to local circumstances.

The Group continues to place a high priority on improving production ergonomics. The aim is to keep our employees fit and healthy

66

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

Prevention Measures

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

Combating HIV and AIDS in South Africa: ­­Volks­wa­gen continued its
international commitment to combating infectious diseases in
2014, for example through continuing measures against HIV/AIDS
at ­­Volks­wa­gen in South Africa. This program received a subsidy of
ZAR 500,000, and by 2014, 93% of the workforce had taken the
­opportunity to be tested for HIV/AIDS .

In 2014, we expanded the prevention and training provision
linked with the Checkup, improved its quality and systematized it.
In particular, we created and modernized medical training
centers and fitness suites, introduced rehabilitation measures
and health coaching, set up training on behavioral ergonomics,
and launched new fitness and wellness programs. The “Fit im
Büro” (“Fit in the Office”) program is a behavioral ergonomics
­program for employees working in an office environment, while
its sister program, “Fit im Werk” (“Fit in the Factory”), aims to reduce physical stresses and strains on those working on the shop
floor. Between May 2013 and June 2014, some 15,700 employees
completed one of these programs at ­­Volks­wa­gen in Wolfsburg.
Across the Group, a holistic approach to health management also
includes healthcare schemes, a wide range of sport and leisure
provision, and measures such as the weight-loss and healthy eating campaign run by ­­Volks­wa­gen South Africa or the company run
organized by MA N Truck & Bus in Munich.
As a matter of course, Volks­
­­
wa­gen health services are available to
the entire workforce, but for specific occupations, the current legislative framework makes such provision mandatory. In 2014, 20,924
­­Volks­wa­gen AG employees were covered by such requirements.

Home Care and Baby Care at ­­Volks­wa­gen do Brasil: The Home Care
program is geared to those of all ages with chronic conditions and
offers both medical care and supportive outpatient care. The Baby
Care program focuses on the welfare of the next generation and
provides expert support for parents and their newborn babies in
the first few weeks and months.

Occupational Safety and Health Protection Policy
In 2004, the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group documented its underlying principles and obligations in relation to occupational health and safety
in an agreement with the Group Global Works Council.
In 2014, the Group issued the corporate policy entitled “Occupational Safety and Health Protection in the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group”.
This applies to all brands and companies and sets out underlying
goals, responsibilities and standards in relation to occupational
safety and health protection. At the same time, another document,
the “Guidelines on Health Protection and Health Promotion in the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group” – a supplement to the corporate policy including concrete examples – was brought up to date. Both of these
­documents, the corporate policy and the guidelines, are due to be
signed off in 2015.
The Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group sets the same standards for work organization, occupational safety and health care for its employees no
matter where in the world it operates, taking account of the local
medical infrastructure and the local legislative framework in each
case. Compliance with these globally applicable standards is
­monitored through audits conducted across the Group.

V V H E A LT H P R O G R A M S A R O U N D T H E G R O U P

BeFit at Bentley: With the aim of encouraging employees to adopt
a healthy lifestyle, Bentley launched its “BeFit” health campaign in
2014. The program focuses on four areas: Weight and Nutrition;
Stress and Depression; the Corporate Step Challenge; and Exercise
and Back Care.

Raising Awareness and Training
In the course of personnel development activities, supervisors in
the Company are being made aware of the need to take greater
­account of the links between leadership and employees’ health.
Seminars foster a health-promoting and family-oriented style of
leadership.
Since 2009, occupational safety officers at all German locations
have been receiving occupational safety qualification. In addition, since early 2012, ­­Volks­wa­gen in Germany has been organizing compulsory qualification modules on occupational safety
for all future supervisors. On the basis of these modules, the
qualification building blocks for future Meister were standardized in 2013 and made a compulsory part of the group leader
qualification.

The Chairless Chair makes many assembly activities easier. This high-tech
­carbon-fiber construction allows employees to sit without a chair. At the same
time, it improves their posture and reduces the strain on their legs.

67

PEOPLE

Group Occupational Safety Management System
On the basis of the Group’s occupational safety management system (K AMS ), which was introduced in 2010, the companies in the
­­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars Division and the ­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles Division analyzed their existing occupational
safety structures and processes. The findings are available across
the Group via a central database. A health and safety committee
has been set up at each included site to represent the entire local
workforce. Moreover, all those involved agreed to conduct a
brand-specific audit at all V
­­ olks­wa­gen locations around the world
from 2012. During the reporting year, the Group’s occupational
safety management system was successfully audited at São Carlos
and Curitiba (Brazil), Pamplona (Spain) and Pacheco (Argentina).

V V AWA R D -W I N N I N G O CCU PAT I O N A L S A F E T Y

­­Volks­w a­gen AG ’s Work2Work program creates new job opportunities for
performance-impaired employees with the Company. In the Automotive
Learnware department at the Wolfsburg plant, 39 employees develop and
produce teaching and learning materials for the automotive sector for
Chambers of Trade and vocational schools.

2014 saw the 29th annual Occupational Safety Cup competition for
­­Volks­wa­gen brand and ­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles locations
in Europe: the cup for the safest location went to the Braunschweig
plant in Germany. ­­Volks­wa­gen Slovakia won a prize for its contribution to ergonomics at the country’s 17th productivity and ergonomics forum in October 2014. And ­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles
won the safety award presented by the timber and metalworking
trade association in Germany for its “GeSA” project, which focuses
on health and safety for apprentices.

Rehabilitation Measures
In many locations we offer a tailored rehabilitation program to
­reintegrate employees after serious and/or long-term illness, providing early intervention and job-related support. The aim is to
stabilize or restore the employees’ capacity and performance ability within three to six months. Depending on the particular needs
in each case, the program can also include preventive provision.
Examples here could be “JobReha” (one to three weeks of outpatient, day-care or in-patient measures focused on the problem
zones in the locomotor system), the RehaFit program (orthopedic,
psychological rehabilitation) and physiotherapy provision, as well
as individual or general rehabilitation training at in-house training centers. Support and mentoring opportunities for employees
with mental health or psychosomatic problems are also being
­expanded on an ongoing basis.
­­Volks­wa­gen AG ’s Work2Work program has been creating new job
opportunities for performance-impaired employees since 2001. It
focuses on achieving an optimal fit between the requirements of
the workplace and employees’ existing potential, enabling them to
make a major contribution to creating value despite their performance impairment. Over recent years, some 1,850 employees
have benefited from the program, and over 810 people are now employed in Work2Work jobs in Wolfsburg in some 95 different fields
of activity.
Based on the three principles of responsibility, autonomy and solidarity, the success story of Work2Work is being continuously rolled
out and taken forward. Here, though, the Company is not merely
proving itself a socially responsible employer, because according
to a remarkable study entitled “Social Return on Investment”, conducted in 2014 in collaboration with the Catholic University of

V V O CCU PAT I O N A L S A F E T Y A N D H E A LT H P R O T E C T I O N I N F O CU S

F R O M T H E O U T S E T AT AU D I M É X I CO

Audi aims to consider high-quality health protection for all employees from the planning stage onwards when it builds new factories
and is taking health protection considerations into account in the
construction of its new plant in San José Chiapa in Mexico. Under
the relevant Development Agreement, the government has built a
hospital near the plant, which will also improve healthcare in the
region as a whole. To ensure that sick or injured employees are
treated promptly, a medical unit has been integrated into the new
training center.

Company Medical Services and Emergency Situation
Management
Medical services and health care for ­­Volks­wa­gen Group employees
are in line with national legislation and internal regulations as
well as with Group guidelines on protecting and promoting health.
All Group locations have at least emergency health provision,
while most locations offer medical services under the oversight of
a doctor.

68

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A DVA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

A DVA N CI N G WO M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

Eichstatt-Ingolstadt, ­­Volks­wa­gen’s Work2Work program is also
an economically viable concept for integrating employees with impaired capacity. It saves operational costs of around €29,000 per
employee per year and savings on social and employment costs of
up to €65,000 per employee per year once elements like potential
disability pensions or transitional payments are also taken into
account. Furthermore, the Work2Work program has been shown
to bring qualitative benefits in terms of health and to have a positive impact on employees’ satisfaction with their work and lives.
The Automotive Learnware department at the Wolfsburg plant is a
fine example of how performance-impaired employees can be
­i ntegrated. Here, 39 employees develop and produce teaching and
learning materials for the automotive sector for Chambers of
Trade and vocational schools. No fewer than 25 performance-impaired employees under the Work2Work program form an integral part of the department, which generated sales revenue of
€1.92 million in 2014. The product portfolio extends from fault
simulators and test equipment to complete or cut-away training
vehicles. Learnware is distributed in 57 countries across all five
continents.

There is enormous potential within the diversity of the ­­Volks­wa­gen
Group workforce. As we move towards becoming top employer in
the automotive sector, we want to make use of this potential by
­explicitly advancing women, improving the scope for combining
work and family, and making full use of the cultural diversity that
exists within the Group.

Voluntary Undertaking
The ­­Volks­wa­gen Group is aiming to have 30% women at all levels
of the management hierarchy in Germany in the long term. In
1989, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG became the first major German company to
formulate guidelines on advancing women. As early as 2007,
­­Volks­wa­gen AG set specific targets for increasing the proportion of
women in the Company, and in spring 2011, the Group set differentiated targets within the framework of a voluntary undertaking
to achieve sustainable growth in the proportion of women working
for the Company in Germany. These include:
>> I ncreasing the proportion of female apprentices
>> Increasing the proportion of female Meister and skilled workers
>> Increasing the proportion of female graduate and professional
recruits
>> Increasing the proportion of female executives

V V P R OV I S I O N F O R O L D E R E M P L OY E E S

On the initiative of the German automotive industry’s representatives of people with disabilities, in 2014 ­­Volks­wa­gen AG , AUDI AG
and Porsche AG continued their involvement in a research project
entitled “Ageing Healthily and Appropriately in the Automotive
­Industry: Career-Long Participation and Inclusion” and known by its
German acronym, PINA . This cooperation project, which is funded
by Germany’s Federal Ministry of Labour, develops tools and initiatives to maintain employees’ health and capacity throughout their
working lives. The term of the project has been extended until the
end of April 2015, with the additional time being used in particular
to trial products developed as part of the project.  

We have a range of programs to help us achieve these targets.

Recruiting Talented Women
In 2014, women accounted for around 21.8% of all Volks­
­­
wa­gen
Group apprentices in industrial or technical areas. To increase
this to 30%, we specifically target the recruitment of talented
women, for example through the nationwide “Girls’ Day”, which
offers young women an opportunity to experience what a career
with ­­Volks­wa­gen can offer them. The “Lower Saxony Technikum”
is a scheme in which the ­­Volks­wa­gen brand offers female students
with the Abitur – Germany’s school-leaving examination – a sixmonth internship designed to stimulate their interest in studying a
technical subject. In 2014, 26 young women completed the “Lower
Saxony Technikum”. We also forge links with female undergraduates at an early stage in their studies. For example, V
­­ olks­wa­gen AG
runs a “Woman Experience Day”. Since 2004, V
­­ olks­wa­gen AG has
also been running the Germany-wide “Woman DrivING Award”, a
competition aimed at top female engineers.

V V S U CC E S S F U L R E I N T E G R AT I O N AT AU D I

Audi has developed a systematic and transparent process to provide
targeted support for the reintegration of performance-impaired
employees and those with disabilities. A study conducted at the
­Ingolstadt plant by the University of St. Gallen surveyed around
15,000 shop floor workers and found high levels of satisfaction
with the integration process.

Systematically Recruiting Female Graduates
In recruiting graduates, we take as our starting point the proportion of female graduates in each discipline, so that, for example,
around 10% of all the mechanical or electrical engineers we recruit should be women. This rises to 50% in business administration. When all the disciplines relevant to ­­Volks­wa­gen’s work are
averaged out, these differentiated quotas produce a recruitment
target of at least 30% female graduates. In the reporting year,
around 30% of graduate recruits at ­­Volks­wa­gen AG were female.

69

PEOPLE

V V P R O G R A M S F O R T H E A DVA N C E M E N T O F WO M E N

Program

Target group and focus

Company

Programs for recruiting talented women
Girls’ Day

Female school students in Germany. Program offers a
­practical insight into automotive sector careers.

­­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen
Sachsen, ­­Volks­wa­gen Osnabrück, AUDI AG , MAN SE , Porsche AG

Lower Saxony Technikum

Female students in Germany with the school-leaving

­­Volks­wa­gen AG locations in Wolfsburg, Braunschweig,

­qualification (Abitur). Program offers placements with a

­Salzgitter, Hanover and Emden; ­­Volks­wa­gen Osnabrück GmbH

­focus on technology.
Woman Experience Day

Female undergraduates and graduates in engineering and IT
areas. Program helps women into careers.

­­Volks­wa­gen AG

Woman DrivING Award

Competition for female engineers in Germany.

­­Volks­wa­gen AG

Femtec.Network

Recruitment tool for female engineers.

Porsche AG

Girls engineering the future

10th grade female school students interested in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics

Bentley

Programs for developing talented women
Mentoring program for

Female skilled workers and Meister. Program offers
­advancement and qualification.

­­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­­Volks­wa­gen Sachsen GmbH

­female Meister
Management mentoring
­program

Female managers. Program offers advancement and
­qualification.

­­Volks­wa­gen AG , AUDI AG , MAN and other subsidiaries

Sie und Audi

Female skilled workers and managers. Program offers
­advancement and qualification.

AUDI AG

Mentoring Programs for Women

>> A return to work at the same level after parental leave
>> Childcare either within or near the company premises

Having been through 21 cycles with almost 400 female participants, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG ’s mentoring scheme for female skilled
workers and managers is a recognized development program
within the Group for bringing on talented women. In 2014, we also
instigated a new management mentoring program, which is
launching its first 42 women from the ­­Volks­wa­gen, Audi and MA N
brands and further subsidiaries on their management careers.
And the program to mentor female Meister run by ­­Volks­wa­gen AG
aims to increase the proportion of female skilled workers and
Meister in Germany to 10%. In 2014, 25 female Meister received
support through this program.

To maintain contact with employees on parental leave and to
­ensure a smooth return to work at the same level, Volks­
­­
wa­gen
­offers work options during parental leave, get-togethers for employees on parental leave and information events, such as the
“Family Management and Career” seminars, run at the Wolfsburg
plant. Audi, Porsche and MA N offer similar provision.

A Range of Childcare Provision
A further step on the way to becoming a family-friendly employer is
the ongoing expansion of tailored childcare provision. The
­­Volks­wa­gen Group has found it beneficial to establish childcare
facilities within or near the Company. At the ­­Volks­wa­gen locations
in Wolfsburg, Hanover and Emden, additional nurseries have
been set up near the plants in cooperation with the local authorities, while MA N runs company kindergartens at its plants in
­Munich and Augsburg. ­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG ’s
“Frech Daxe” nursery in Braunschweig, meanwhile, is one of Germany’s largest company nurseries.

Combining Work and Family
As well as recruiting and promoting talented women, the
­­­Volks­w a­gen Group is working continually to improve employees’ ability to combine work and family responsibilities. The
support we offer includes:
>> Substantial flexibility in relation to hours of work
>> An extensive range of part-time and shift-working arrangements

70

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A DVA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

full-time leave to fulfil their caring responsibilities. Another
­option is to work part-time for up to 24 months so as to be able to
meet caring obligations. Volks­
­­
wa­gen is particularly flexible in its
commitment to re-employing workers who take extended leave; for
the past 20 years or so, employees have been able to request up to
eight years’ leave of absence without having to give reasons and
have a guaranteed right to re-employment on their former terms
and conditions. At Porsche, employees have been able to apply
for time off to care for family members since March 1, 2014. In the
event of care being urgently required within the family, they can
take up to three months’ leave at 75% of their gross monthly pay. In
this respect, Porsche goes well beyond the legal requirements,
which do not envision any remuneration for this period.

V V E X A M P L E S O F CO M B I N I N G WO R K A N D FA M I LY

­­
Volks­
wa­gen Group of America: Childcare provision has been offered at the Chattanooga plant since January 2012, working with an
­established regional provider to care for around 200 children.
­­
Volks­
wa­gen Slovakia: An initial get-together for employees on parental leave was organized in 2014. The idea is to keep employees
involved with the company and to make it easier for them to return
to work, for example by providing childcare, e-learning and flexible
working.
­­
Volks­
wa­gen Rus: 80 children of employees at the Kaluga location
once again enjoyed a company-funded holiday camp in 2014.

High Proportion of Employees with Disabilities
­­
Volks­
wa­gen is particularly committed to helping employees with
performance impairment or disabilities. People with disabilities
made up 7.39% of the total workforce of Volks­
­­
wa­gen AG in 2014 –
once again, well above the statutory quota of 5%. 55% of employees with disabilities worked in the production sector and 45% in
support functions. ­­Volks­wa­gen is also helping to boost employment for people with disabilities outside the Company: during the
reporting year, it placed orders worth more than €20.9 million
with workshops employing people with disabilities. ­­Volks­wa­gen
mobility aids have also helped to give people with disabilities
greater independence and autonomy.

­Volks­wa­gen Motor Polska and ­­Volks­wa­gen Poznań: The “Future
Mother” programme allows women to work flexible hours or to
­reduce their hours without loss of pay during pregnancy.

Caring for Family Members
­­Volks­wa­gen AG has a wide range of provision for time off to help its
employees care for close family members. Employees have a right
to take up to ten working days’ leave at short notice to organize
­appropriate care. They may also take up to six months’ part-time or

Employees at many ­­Volks­w a­gen AG , ­­Volks­w a­gen Sachsen GmbH, ­­Volks­w a­gen Osnabrück GmbH, ­­Volks­w a­gen Financial Services AG , Audi and Porsche locations
enjoy childcare provision during school holidays.

71

PEOPLE

The Company is also particularly committed to its performance-impaired employees outside Germany. An example here is
the six sheltered workshops that employ more than 200 people
with disabilities at the ŠKODA production locations in the Czech
Republic.

Inclusion Agreement Signed
In July 2014, the Board of Management, the Works Council and
the representatives of people with disabilities signed an inclusion
agreement that applies across all Group brands and companies
in Germany. This agreement makes inclusion an integral part of
the corporate culture and focuses not on individuals’ supposed
deficits but on their strengths and potential. The aims of the agreement are as follows:
Dr. Horst Neumann, Member of the Group Board of Management responsible
for Personnel Management and Organization, Bernd Osterloh, Chairman
of the Group Works Council, and Klaus Wenzel, Chairman of the representatives of people with disabilities, sign a joint declaration on inclusion.

>> People with disabilities are assigned meaningful roles and
­responsibilities in which they can make optimal use of, and
­develop, their strengths and potential and obtain recognition
for their performance.
>> Young people with disabilities can pursue vocational education
and training within the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group. Barriers to the
­application process are progressively dismantled.
>> The topic of inclusion forms part of the corporate mind-set and is
taken for granted in employees’ daily dealings with each other.
Managers have an important part to play in promoting changes
in attitudes: the necessary changes will come about only when
people are well informed.
>> If the strategy is to be implemented sustainably, inclusion must
be embedded in the agenda of all relevant committees.
>> Progress should be made in joint projects between the Company
and the representatives of people with disabilities on boosting
inclusion. Those involved will receive support from the Board of
Management and employee representatives.

also provides access to trained personnel to support and advise the
individual concerned. At the initiative of the Works Council, these
rights and obligations were laid down in 1996 in the “Cooperative
Conduct at the Workplace” works agreement for all V
­­ olks­wa­gen AG
employees and locations. This agreement was revised in 2007, and
every new employee receives a copy when he or she is appointed. It
is also covered in management training activities.

S O CI A L R ES P O N S I B I L I T Y
For the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group, corporate social responsibility (CSR)
has long since come to mean a commitment to local well-being beyond the factory gates. As well as promoting social, cultural and
societal projects, we see ourselves as a source of economic impetus
for local structural development and equal opportunities. We support some 200 projects worldwide designed to enhance economic
and social structures, placing special emphasis on continuity and
sustainability. Our aim is that employees, shareholders, the local
population and customers should all benefit from what we do.

A working group is charged with implementing this agreement
through various action areas and measures.

Equal Opportunities as a Matter of Principle
­­ olks­wa­gen is committed to respect, tolerance and cosmopolitanV
ism. We guarantee equal opportunities and equal treatment irrespective of ethnicity, skin color, gender, disability, ideology, faith,
nationality, sexual orientation, social background or political conviction, provided this is based on democratic principles and tolerance towards those who hold different views. The Volks­
­­
wa­gen
Group’s Code of Conduct underpins this aspiration across the
Group, and every employee and member of an executive body has
responsibility under the Code for ensuring that individuals work
together in partnership and for notifying any breach of the Code
without delay. If there is a breach of the Code, the Company may
take appropriate action against an individual who is acting in a
discriminatory way; sanctions range from a formal warning or
­relocation to dismissal.
If an employee feels he or she is being discriminated against, the
Company meets the statutory provisions for whistle-blowing but

Our Priorities
Our CSR priorities include support for future-oriented, education
and social projects, primarily in the locations where the Group
­operates. But we also offer rapid support to the victims of natural
disasters and promote volunteering by our employees. The following fundamental principles underpin our choice of CSR projects:
>> The projects are in line with the Group’s Basic Principles and
­address a specific local or regional issue.
>> They reflect diversity within the Group and in the social environment in which the projects are sited.
>> They involve a close stakeholder dialogue with actors on the
ground, who are involved in carrying out the projects.
>> Project management is based locally and overseen by local units.
72

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A DVA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

Commitment to the Regions

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

ment in the regions in which Volks­
­­
wa­gen operates around the
world. V
­­ olks­wa­gen South Africa, for example, supports the nationwide Nal’ibali reading campaign, which has so far set up 272 reading clubs. Volks­
­­
wa­gen Group China, meanwhile, runs a bursary
scheme that enables students at Xinjiang University to participate
in academic exchanges in Germany.

We are committed to the regions in which our locations are based:
a sustainable environment that is pleasant to live in gives a region
the edge in competition for business, boosts local employees’ quality of life, and makes us more attractive as an employer. This is why,
for example, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG supports regional growth initiatives
in areas including education, health, leisure, energy and transport, alongside a broad range of measures to promote business.
Wolfsburg AG , based within the Group headquarters in Wolfsburg
(Germany), is a beacon in this respect. This public-private partnership with the City of Wolfsburg, launched in 1999, is involved
in future-oriented projects focusing on the important topics of employment and quality of life. And this joint undertaking is proving
very successful: in November 2013, Wolfsburg topped the table for
economic growth in a survey of German towns and cities by the
business magazine Wirtschaftswoche and scored very highly for
tax revenue, productivity and women’s employment. And the entire region now benefits from the work done to develop structures
and local amenities: Wolfsburg AG works closely with the “Allianz
für die Region GmbH”, or Regional Alliance, which takes in the
towns of Wolfsburg, Braunschweig and Salzgitter and the surrounding rural areas as well as regional businesses.

V V P L A N T- F O R-T H E - P L A N E T

The “Plant-for-the-Planet” initiative launched by school student
­Felix Finkbeiner aims to reduce levels of carbon dioxide in the
­atmosphere by planting trees. The aim is to plant some 1,000 billion
trees by 2020. On the initiative of the Works Council, ­­Volks­wa­gen is
supporting this project which has also been recognized by the German UNESCO Commission. The program includes academies for
children and young people at which they learn key facts about
­climate change and global fairness and have the chance to take part
in a tree-planting event. Almost all ­­Volks­wa­gen locations in Germany have already hosted such academies and plant-a-tree events and
these activities will be continued over the long term.  

We also use our expertise in mobility and road safety in school education projects. Just one of many examples from companies within
the Group is the “Parque Polo”, an area providing road safety
training through play for children and sited in the grounds of the
­­Volks­wa­gen Navarra plant (Pamplona, Spain) which was opened
more than ten years ago. In 2014, 8,522 children aged between 5
and 15 visited the Parque, taking the total number of visitors to
114,268.

V V X I N J I A N G D O C TO R S G O W E S T

Partnering with the Xinjiang Medical University and the Xinjiang
Medical University Hospital, ­­Volks­wa­gen China is supporting an exchange program called “Xinjiang doctors go West”. As part of China’s support for infrastructure in the west of the country, this program both provides a platform for participating doctors to share
experience and offers bursaries to young medical students.

VV H E L P F O R FLO O D V I C TI M S I N TH E BA L K A N S

Educational Initiatives

After the disastrous floods that hit large parts of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Croatia in May 2014, the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group sent
€100,000 in emergency aid to the German Red Cross to support its
work in the region. The money was used to provide victims with
emergency supplies and to help with reconstruction.

In addition to regional infrastructure projects, Volks­
­­
wa­gen AG is
also actively involved in education in the region. The “Neue Schule
Wolfsburg” project, an initiative to set up a new school in Wolfsburg in partnership with the city and local businesses, opened its
doors in August 2009. This primary and secondary school, which
is open to all children from the City of Wolfsburg and the surrounding region, designs its curriculum around five key themes:
a strong international focus, science and technology, business, the
arts, and the promotion of talent. The school has a total of 688
­students enrolled in the 2014/2015 academic year. In Ingolstadt,
meanwhile, Germany’s first integrated school (Profilschule)
opened its doors in September 2014 with support from Audi. Its
motto is “Kein Talent verlieren” (“Fostering every talent”), and this
unique beacon project offers children and young people with difficult backgrounds educational support at primary and secondary
levels. The project resulted from collaboration between the Bavarian Ministry of Education, the City of Ingolstadt, the Roland-Berger Foundation and Audi. Education is also a key area of involve-

Volunteering Welcome
Responsibility, respect and a long-term commitment are pillars of
our personnel management work within the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group
and benefit our employees, not least by boosting their social and
crossfunctional skills. That is why we actively support our employees in volunteering through our “­­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehrenamt”
(“­­Volks­wa­gen Supports Volunteering”) initiative, which is embedded in the personnel management function. The initiative focuses
on sport, culture, education and society, but we also offer rapid
support to the victims of natural disasters. For example, we can
quickly release employees from their regular duties to assist in
73

PEOPLE

The ­­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehrenamt in-house “Senior Experts” initiative offers an opportunity to serve the community regionally or globally by passing on know-how
within the Company or as a volunteer adviser to external organizations.

the aftermath of a natural disaster. The “­­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehren­
amt” function also supports all Group companies in implementing
this framework concept. Our volunteering database enables the
function to match volunteers with demand and to provide relevant
information. By the end of 2104, the initiative had placed some
2,034 employees in volunteer roles, and similar programs have
now been introduced at other Group companies, including Audi,
MA N , Porsche and ŠKODA .

the community regionally or globally, for example, by passing on
their know-how within the Company or as an adviser to external
­organizations. In 2014, 219 Senior Experts were able to choose
whether, where and on which projects they wanted to put their specialist knowledge and skills to good use. Among other benefits, this
valuable exchange of experience between older and younger people
means that former employees maintain their links with the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group while both sides boost their knowledge and skills.

VV Employees with an interest in volunteering have access to 2,041 opportuni­
ties with more than 570 organizations
through the ­­Volks­wa­gen volunteering
database.

V V C I V I C E N G AG E M E N T W E E K O F AC T I O N

­­
Volks­
wa­gen supports the voluntary activities of its employees and
aims to foster a wider awareness in society of the importance of
voluntary commitments that advance social causes. As a cooperation partner to the German National Network for Civil Society (BBE),
in 2014 ­­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehrenamt for the first time opened the
10th nationwide Civic Engagement Week of Action. During panel
discussions on the topic of “Corporate Social Responsibility and Engagement” insight was provided into the voluntary activities of the
Group and its employees.

Senior Experts Benefit the Community
All employees looking for a new challenge once they have retired can
volunteer with the “­­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehrenamt” in-house “Senior
Experts” scheme. This initiative offers them an opportunity to serve
74

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

“spare cents”: employees donate the odd cents included in their
monthly pay slip.
To coincide with the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, ­­Volks­wa­gen donated over €2 million for a special project, “A chance to play – o direito
de brincar”. The money helped children living in favelas in the
­v icinity of ­­Volks­wa­gen’s Brazilian locations.

V V ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N AG : WO R K F O R C E D O N AT I O N S I N 2 01 4 I N %
Cultural, religious
and general welfare
purposes 40.0
Science and research,
education 43.2

Sport 3.0

V V ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N AG : E M P L OY E E D O N AT I O N S I N 2 01 4
Charitable purposes 13.9

Total €14 million.¹

Employee giving

The total value of giving does not include the “­­­­Volks­wa­gen Beleg­
schaftsstiftung” (­­­­Volks­wa­gen Employees’ Foundation), set up in
2011. ­­­­Volks­wa­gen made no donations to political parties, partyaffiliated foundations or representatives of the political arena.

€634,773

One Hour for the Future

€1,125,350

“A chance to play – o direito de brincar”

€2,245,600

The Volks­
­­
wa­gen Employees’ Foundation
The Volks­
­­
wa­gen Employees’ Foundation was set up in 2011 as a
charitable foundation by ­­Volks­wa­gen AG with the aim of promoting initial, continuing and vocational training, education, and
support for young people, with a particular focus on improving the
living conditions of children and young people regardless of their
origin, background or religion. To achieve this effectively, the
­­Volks­wa­gen Employees’ Foundation restricts its activities to areas
surrounding the Group’s locations worldwide.
Since 2011, the V
­­ olks­wa­gen Employees’ Foundation has launched or
supported ten projects in Germany and elsewhere. In Portugal, for
example, it supports the “Tu importas” (“You count”) project, a threeyear training program for socially disadvantaged young people.

This figure does not include cause-related marketing, sponsorship or projects and
­activities conducted by ­­­­Volks­wa­gen as part of its social and cultural commitment. Nor
does it include donations by other ­­­­Volks­wa­gen Group brands.
1

Company Donations
The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s commitment to donations and sponsorship is a key part of our corporate identity and reflects our desire to
fulfil our corporate social responsibility. We support a wide range
of organizations and events around the world. The principles underpinning donations and sponsorship are governed by our
Group-wide Code of Conduct, which stipulates that we give donations in cash and in kind for activities and projects primarily devoted to research and education, culture and sport, and social causes.
Donations are granted only to organizations recognized to be
non-profit or that are authorized by special provisions to accept
donations. ­Volks­wa­gen does not donate to political parties, party-affiliated foundations or representatives of the political arena.
Over the reporting year, V
­ olks­wa­gen AG donated a total of €14 million. Along with social organizations, in 2014 the main beneficiaries of donations were the victims of major natural disasters.

Fairtrade
At the suggestion of the General Works Council, ­­Volks­wa­gen AG
has been supporting the sale of TransFair-branded products in its
catering facilities via its catering provider, Service Factory Gastronomie und Hotellerie, since 1999. This helps producers in developing countries to earn a decent living. In 2014, total consumption of fairly traded coffee rose 23.7%, to 60 t. And since 2012,
­­Volks­wa­gen has also been selling fairly traded craft items: producers in Madagascar use recycled cans to produce models based on
iconic ­­Volks­wa­gen vehicles.

Employee Donations
In 2014, employees of ­­Volks­wa­gen AG alone donated more than €4
million to good causes. Employee donations represent a major contribution by ­­Volks­wa­gen AG companies and their employees to
those in need in locations where the Company operates. Employee
donations support specific projects, such as those that improve the
lives of people whose quality of life is reduced by illness, disability
or other circumstances. Our goal is to offer support to those who
are disadvantaged and to boost social cohesion: for example, we
support the “Starthilfe” (Getting Started) project, which helps socially disadvantaged children and young people and improves the
lives and prospects of young people in the Wolfsburg region. In the
“One Hour for the Future” campaign, ­­
Volks­
wa­
gen and Audi
­employees donate an hour’s pay to help street children. Since the
summer of 2003, this initiative has also included the collection of

To coincide with the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, ­­Volks­w a­gen donated over €2
million for a special project, “A chance to play – o direito de brincar”.

75

PEOPLE

Our Global Engagement
core of our corporate culture. On the Internet you will find a
map of the world that you can click on for more details about all
and any of our projects.
29

The Volks­
­­
w a­gen Group supports some 200 projects promoting
social development, the arts and culture, education, regional
structural development, health and sport, as well as nature
conservation. When deciding which social projects to support
and partnerships to enter into, we don’t take a scattershot approach but consider whether they make a good match for our
corporate focus on mobility or are located in the vicinity of our
production locations and benefit the people who work there or
live locally. At all of our brands and in every region in the world
of Volks­
­­
w a­gen, living up to our social responsibilities is at the

17

VOCATIONAL TR AI N I NG

35

EDUCATION AN D SC I ENC E

H EALTH CAR E

CU LTU R E AN D TH E ARTS

NATU R E CONSERVATION

R EGIONAL DEVELOPMENT

SPORT

ROAD SAFETY EDUCATION

76

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

87

36

16
1

77

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

PEOPLE

VV I NTE RV I E W

WHEN IT COMES TO SUSTAINABILITY,
YOU CAN NEVER DO ENOUGH
An interview with Bernd Osterloh,
Chairman of the General and Group Works Council

training projects in Brazil and Argentina, aid for recent graduates in ­Italy – the list goes on and on. Each project is a priority;
each project is close to my heart.

The ­­Volks­wa­gen Works Council fosters, even initiates, its own
corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects. Why is that? Isn’t
CSR usually a management function?
Osterloh: Social responsibility isn’t something you can leave to
others. We believe that everyone has a responsibility to get
­involved. And you can’t just talk the talk – you have to walk the
walk. Sixteen years ago, for example, the Group Works Council
launched the “One hour for the future” campaign. We partner
with the children’s and adolescents’ charity “terre des hommes”
to help street children worldwide. Over the years, we have sponsored more than 130 projects in six countries. And since 2010
we’ve also had a special project called “A chance to play”. At the
two FIFA World Cup tournaments in South Africa and Brazil, we
made sure that more than 100,000 socially disadvantaged
­children could participate in games, sports and educational
­activities. But we are also aware that child poverty is an issue
right on our own doorstep. To address this problem, we
launched the “Starthilfe” (Getting Started) initiative. It sponsors
projects targeting nutrition, education, physical fitness and
­social development in nursery and elementary schools.

Why does the Works Council consider sustainability and
­social responsibility so important for a global corporation like
­­Volks­wa­gen? Do you think the Company is already doing
enough to reach its ambitious objective of being the most
­sustainable company in the industry?
Osterloh: It is important to fight poverty, protect nature and
promote the arts. These are obligations to our society that no
one, including companies, can ignore. ­­Volks­wa­gen internalized
these priorities years ago and can justly be called a pioneer in
many areas. But my honest answer to your question is that
when it comes to sustainability, you can never do enough – and
I am certain that our management understands this as well.

VV ­It is important to fight poverty, protect
nature and promote the arts.

The “­­Volks­wa­gen Belegschaftsstiftung” (­­Volks­wa­gen Employees’ Foundation) provides a special example of how employees
live out their commitment to social responsibility. Are there
projects here that are especially close to your heart?

Employee co-determination plays an important role in the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group. The Group Works Council is pursuing the
goal of establishing employee representation bodies at its
­locations outside Germany as well. What benefits can be
gained by this approach? Where do things currently stand?

Osterloh: The ­­Volks­wa­gen Employees’ Foundation was established in 2011.  The foundation has taken up the work of our
former children’s relief projects. The focus has always been
on socially disadvantaged children and young people in the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group’s locations around the globe. We are aiming to give them the chance to shape a successful future for
themselves. You can well imagine that every single one of
these projects is important to me, because every project
has a worthy goal. One hundred apprenticeships in Portugal,
­establishing a vocational training center in India, vocational

Osterloh: Strong employee co-determination is one of the reasons
that ­­Volks­wa­gen is such a successful company today. Today nobody disputes this fact. We have a model of co-determination that
works very well in Germany, and what we are trying to do is identify the elements that can be applied in our locations elsewhere. Be
it in India, Brazil or Portugal – the local background conditions are
very different, and of course we have to take them into account. In
any case, our top priority remains representing the interests of our

78

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

Q UA L I F I C AT I O N W I T H I N T H E B E R U F S FA M I L I E N
A D VA N C I N G W O M E N A N D D I V E R S I T Y

P E R F O R M A N C E A N D PA R T I C I PAT I O N

H E A LT H A N D F I T N E S S

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y

to the advantage of the workforce. It’s not about stopping ­progress
or acting as a roadblock. It’s about leveraging the full potential of
digitization. For example, digitization goes hand in hand with
questions of ergonomics and autonomy. The way we work tomorrow has to be better than today. If we succeed in making it so, then
we will have accomplished something worthwhile.

VV ­The way we work tomorrow has to be
better than today.
With the aim of meeting new challenges, the ­­Volks­wa­gen
Group has committed itself to a strict efficiency program. Do
you believe this endangers the corporate objectives of job
­security and social responsibility?

colleagues vis-à-vis management. To accomplish this, we need
well-defined structures and binding rules – which of course can
be different depending on the situation. The most important
thing is making certain that the employees’ wishes and needs
don’t ­disappear from the radar. ­­Volks­wa­gen understands this,
which is why our Company is working to become the best employer. And I consider this a very worthwhile goal.

Osterloh: No, what makes you think that? The efficiency program
will have precisely the opposite effect. It will safeguard long-term
employment. Our Chairman of the Board of Management, Professor Dr. Martin Winterkorn, hasn’t simply prescribed a program of
cost cutting. We’re aiming to make processes throughout the
Company more efficient, which also means more cost-effective.
The employees have understood this from the outset, which is
why they have set a good example. We presented Dr. Winterkorn
with a folder containing more than 500 specific proposals which
come directly from the workforce. And more proposals are still
coming in. After all, our colleagues are the ones who know best
where ­­Volks­wa­gen has unexploited reserves and opportunities
waiting to be leveraged. In fact, I can think of some managers who
I wish were tackling the efficiency program with the same energy
that we are. We’re talking about a responsibility that must be
shouldered – responsibility for cost-effectiveness and job security
within the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group.

VV ­Strong employee co-determination is
one of the reasons that V
­­ olks­wa­gen is such
a successful company today.
The automobile industry is going through a sea change. Digitization won’t just leave its mark on the cars of the future, but
on the world of work as well. What are the biggest challenges
facing the ­­Volks­wa­gen Group? What can the employees ­expect
to happen?
Osterloh: Digitization is hardly a new phenomenon. And this is not
the first major change that the automotive world has experienced.
Whenever there is change, there are both opportunities and risks.
Of course digitization means that workflows and processes will
change. As the Works Council, it is our job to shape these changes

VV ­We’re talking about a responsibility that
must be shouldered.

79

ENVIRONMENT
CO NTE NT S
84

Essay Prof. Dr. Jochem Heizmann

86

Management Approach

90

Group-Wide Programs

94

Product Planning and Development

100

Production and Logistics

107

Sales, Use and Recycling

AVERAGE NEW VEHICLE FLEET CO 2 EMISSIONS FOR THE ­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROUP BY REGION
2014, in g/km

126

2

EU 28

168

1

(2013: 129 g/km)

163

1

USA
(2013: 171 g/km)

CHINA
(2013: 170 g/km)

REDUCTION IN CO 2
EMISSIONS FROM GROUP
PRODUCTION OPERATIONS 3
2014, in %

REDUCTION I N EN ERGY
­ ONSUMPTION BY GROU P
C
PRODUCTION OPERATION 3
2014, in %

REDUCTION IN WASTE FOR
DISPOSAL FROM GROUP
PRODUCTION OPERATIONS 3
2014, in %

- 23.2

- 18.5

- 21.7

(2013: - 19.5%)

(2013: - 12.5%)

(2013: - 13.8%)

Preliminary internal figure.
Subject to official publication by the European Commission.
3
Reduction per vehicle manufactured compared to 2010.
1

2

ENVIRONMENT

Essay

EL EC T R I F Y I NG CH I N A W I T H A
TA I L OR - M A DE EF F ICI E NC Y
S T R AT EGY
“When the wind of change blows, some build walls and
others build windmills,” says an old Chinese proverb.
This makes the perfect match for our ­Volks­wa­gen
­Efficiency Strategy. The world is changing fast, and in
China the clocks run even a little bit faster than elsewhere. China is facing big new challenges. More prosperity, coupled with a careful management of resources. More innovation, also triggered by the digital
revolution. And – of course – a sound environment for
everybody: these are cornerstones of China’s path to
­reform. And they precisely reflect our ambition for the
future, too.
The Chinese government sets the course for new ecofriendly technologies and sustainable behavior. The
guideline to reduce CO2 emissions in China to a fleet fuel
consumption of 5l, is even more challenging than the
95g/km target for 2020 set by the European Union. The
explanation is very simple: in China only 1 % of cars have
a diesel engine and there is a preference for more spacious vehicles which naturally are heavier. The answer to
this challenge can only be a holistic approach. We have
to think in terms of all possible technical solutions, including sophisticated vehicle and powertrain measures
as well as alternative drive systems.

“More prosperit y in
combination with a
careful management
of ­r esources.”

First of all, we need to better protect the environment
and further reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the
­future. In this context, the development of electric
vehicles plays a key role. At the same time, other issues
also need to be considered. For example, the Chinese
government has stated that carbon dioxide emissions
should peak in 2030 before beginning to fall, which
means that all sources of emissions need to get involved in the process of reducing the carbon footprint,
including energy suppliers, households and various
industries such as the auto industry. More Chinese
cities are expected to restrict vehicle registrations in
the future, as has already happened for example in
Beijing, Shanghai or Guangzhou. This will drive up
demand for new-energy vehicles especially in these
megacities.

On the subject of plug-in hybrid as a focus of the
­Volks­wa­gen Group for developing new-energy vehicles in
China, I think we should be aware that plug-in hybrid
­power is the best solution in the short and medium term.
Perhaps the development of all-electric vehicles can be
realized in the long run. Discussions are ongoing in
this respect also with Chinese experts. We need to find
solutions to facilitate the development of highly effi84

ENVIRONMENT

Essay

convinced that with joint efforts we go step by step in
the right direction – to reach the big goal of sustainable
mobility in China.

“The development of
electric vehicles plays a
key role.”

The biggest challenge confronting ­Volks­wa­gen is cost.
For the time being, electric vehicle technologies are very
costly, so customers need to obtain a government subsidy
in order to purchase an electric vehicle. For one thing,
battery technology costs need to be further reduced; for
another, costs can also be reduced by increasing quantities or through volume production. We expect future electric vehicles to achieve the same price levels as conventional models. Thanks to our modular toolkit strategy
we are able to electrify nearly every model in our range –
to meet the local consumers’ needs in all segments and
classes.

cient batteries. And at component level we need to consider how to further improve energy conservation in both
conventionally powered and electric models.
From the perspective of standards it is also very important to establish an electric vehicle charging standard.
Our plug-in hybrids do not require special charging
­facilities and they can easily be charged over night at ordinary household sockets. However, when we consider
all-electric vehicles, a fast-charging infrastructure
should first be put in place. So for the future of electric
mobility it is essential that common standards for fast
charging should be defined immediately. China has not
established any unified standard in this regard so far.
Currently, for example, you cannot drive an all-electric
vehicle from Beijing to Shanghai and rely on charging
along the way. This is because the infrastructure has
not been completed yet – and even once it is, the standard may not be universal. To this end, we need dependable, stable technologies. This way, in the future we
can channel our development investments in the right
­d irection and contribute towards advancing plug-in
­hybrid technologies.

“We cannot allow the
electric car to be a
c­ ompromise on wheels.”
­ olks­wa­gen is “electrifying” China with a tailor-made
V
new electric vehicle strategy. In the near future, we will
be offering Chinese customers an impressive choice of
over twenty electric vehicles – from small cars to large
sedans and SUVs, from plug-in hybrids to all-electric
drives. We cannot allow the electric car to be a compromise on wheels. It has to be perfect in every way – technically m
­ ature, practical, safe and affordable.

There is no doubt that the research and development of
new electric vehicles is a key pillar to address CO2 reduction from the perspective of the automotive industry. So it is to be welcomed that the Chinese government
gives strong support to the market development of new
electric vehicles by specific regulations and subsidies.
And we are pleased to see that the recent policy initiatives start showing impact looking at the growth of the
new energy vehicles production volume in 2014. I am

Prof. Dr. Jochem Heizmann
Member of the Group Board of Management,
with responsibility for ‘China’

85

ENVIRONMENT

SETTING GLOBAL
­S TANDARDS.
By 2018, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group is aiming to be the world’s most environmentally compatible
­automaker. In order to achieve this goal, we have set ourselves some ambitious targets, particularly
with regard to environmental protection. In 2014 we continued our consistent pursuit of these
goals. Our Environmental Strategy embraces all of our brands and regions, and extends throughout every stage of the value chain.

M A N AG E M E N T A PPROACH

The V
­ olks­w a­gen Group has defined four overarching target
­a reas:

Climate change, resource availability and urbanization are just
some of the major global challenges facing the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group
from an environmental perspective. These challenges are reflected in growing demands from all sides, be it politicians who enforce
ambitious worldwide environmental regulations, investors who
expect us to anticipate and manage the risks, or customers with
their growing interest in fuel-efficient vehicles.

>> Leader in environmentally friendly products: We firmly
­believe that eco-friendly products should never compromise
on world-class technology, comfort and safety. One of our key
goals is to cut CO2 emissions from our European new car fleet
to 9
­ 5 g/km by 2020, to reduce fuel consumption by between 10
and 15% in each new model compared with its predecessor, to
have the lowest fuel consumption levels in every vehicle class
(for the ­Volks­wa­gen brand), to expand our range of alternative
powertrains, to achieve top rankings, ratings and awards for
selected products, and to become the market leaders in electric
mobility by 2018.
>> No. 1 for lifecycle-wide resource conservation: We consider
the environmental impacts of our products, particularly their
CO 2 emissions, at every stage of their life cycle. Along with
­climate protection, the main objective of this approach is to
conserve finite resources. Our measures center on efficient
product and process design, the use of innovative environmental technologies, and sustainable energy supplies. For this
reason, we not only aim for every vehicle to better the environmental performance of its predecessor over its entire life cycle,
but also target the significant reduction of our environmental
footprint by 2018. Specifically, we are aiming for 25% reductions in energy and water consumption, CO 2 and solvent emissions and waste for disposal per manufactured unit compared
with 2010.
>> No. 1 for intelligent mobility: Intelligent mobility brings ­together
our pursuit of mobility and comfort, environmental protection
and efficient transport. We aim for high levels of customer satisfaction and want to be perceived as the most eco-friendly automaker. Our principal strategies for achieving these aims ­include
intelligent, networked vehicles, new, supplementary business
models and services, accompanied by initiatives for transport,
­u rban planning and social change.

VV The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group has a long
tradition of resolute commitment to
environmental protection.
The V
­ olks­w a­gen Group has a long tradition of resolute commitment to environmental protection. The new Environmental
Strategy adopted by the Group Board of Management in 2013
provides the framework for addressing these challenges with
specific targets and measures, and improving environmental
protection within the Group. Implementation of the Groupwide Environmental Strategy is binding and measurable across
the brands and business units at every stage of the value chain,
from product planning and development, to supplier management, logistics and production, through to sales, marketing
and recycling.

V V AC T I O N F I E L D S COV E R E D BY T H I S C H A P T E R

Resource conservation across the life cycle
Environmentally friendly products/electrification
Climate and environmental protection
Intelligent mobility and networking

86

M A N AG E M E N T A P P R O A C H

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T R AT E G Y

No. 1 for
­intelligent
­m obility
GROU P ENVI RONMENTAL STR ATEGY

Vision: the ­Volks­wa­gen Group
will be the leading automotive
group in ecological terms by 2018.

Anchored
throughout the
Company

No. 1 for
­lifecycle-wide
­resource
­conservation

Leader in
­environmentally
friendly
products

(See “Environmental Programs and Initiatives of the Brands”,
page 89.)

>> Anchored throughout the Company: We want every individual in our well-informed, qualified workforce to be actively involved. Our strength lies in combining the expertise and
competence of our brands and regions. Environmental considerations are factored into every decision we make. We will
motivate and qualify our employees even more intensively to
meet our environmental targets.

Organization of Environmental Protection
within the Group
The Group Board of Management is the highest decision-making
authority on environmental matters. Since 2012, it has simultaneously acted as the Group’s Sustainability Board. The Group
Chief Officer for the Environment, Energy and New Business
­A reas, a post established in 2011, heads up the Corporate
­E nvironmental and Energy Steering Group and reports to the
Sustainability Board. The Steering Group is made up of representatives from all Group divisions as well as from the Group
Works Council, brands and companies, and meets four times a
year. Other Group-wide committees, such as the CO 2 Steering
Group, the Vehicle Recycling Steering Group and the Corporate
Working Group “Life ­Cycle Engineering”, address a range of
­specialist issues. The brands and companies are responsible for
environmental organization at their headquarters and locations.

To firmly anchor this philosophy throughout the Group, we need
the involvement of every business unit at every stage of the value
chain. This holistic, modular approach entails defining our own
measurable goals for each module, which will help us to achieve
our corporate objective of becoming the world’s most sustainable
automaker. We have set up Group-wide committee and reporting
structures to manage these topics, and systematically share best
practice examples in a global network.

Environmental Policy
Environmental protection in the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group rests on the following global principles, which are binding for all Group brands:

VV We want every individual in our
­well-informed, qualified workforce
to be actively involved.

>> Group Environmental Policy (1995).
30
>> Group Environmental Principles Production (2007).
31
>> Group Environmental Principles Product (2008).
32
>> Mission Statement on Biodiversity (2008).
33

Environmental Officers at our European locations have convened
regularly since 1976 to share their knowledge and experience. Regular Group Environmental Conferences were introduced in 1998 as a
forum for the Group’s Environmental Officers and experts to discuss
strategies, measures and projects, and draw up joint action plans.

All those responsible at Group headquarters, within the
brands and at the locations observe these environmental principles in every decision they take. The environmental policies
and targets of the brands are derived from these principles.

87

ENVIRONMENT

Porsche have also had their factories’ energy management systems
certified to the relatively new standard ISO 50001, and others will
be following suit in the near future. V
­ olks­wa­gen brand production
locations in Germany (passenger cars and commercial vehicles)
have participated in EM A S since as long ago as 1995, and publish
annual environmental statements which are validated by an environmental auditor.
34 In 1996, the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand became
the first automaker in the world to introduce an environmental
management system certified to ISO 14001, for the “­ development
of motor vehicles with continuously improved ­environmental
properties” in its Technical Development department. In 2009,
the “integration of environmental aspects into product development for the ­
Volks­
wa­
gen brand” was likewise certified to
ISO T R 14062 – another first for the industry. Both were recently
recertified in 2013, and now have valid certificates until the end
of 2016.
35

V V E N V I R O N M E N TA L O RG A N I Z AT I O N AT AU D I

The Board of Management has overall responsibility for operational
environmental protection at Audi, while the Production Board is
­responsible for implementing environmental policy. The Environmental Protection unit, responsible for defining environmental protection activities in the Audi Group, reports to the Production
Board. The Environmental Management Officers at AUDI AG and its
locations and subsidiaries (including Lamborghini and Ducati) make
up the “Coordinating Committee for Environmental Protection”,
which issues recommendations on strategic environmental issues.
The cross-functional Ecology Steering Committee is tasked with implementing the mandates of the Coordinating Committee, among
other things.
Operational environmental protection at the locations is the responsibility of the local Environmental Protection Officers. Their
brief is to maintain and continuously improve the environmental
compatibility of all activities at the respective Audi locations. Consequently, the Operational Environmental Protection unit is actively
involved in all environmentally relevant decisions and activities at
the locations.

V V S I T E S W I T H E N V I R O N M E N TA L C E R T I F I C AT I O N , 2 01 4

(previous year in brackets)

Building on the Group Environmental Policy and Environmental
Principles, all brands organize their own environmental management systems autonomously in line with international standards,
be it the European Union’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
(EM A S ) or the International Standards for Environmental Management (ISO 14001) and Energy Management (ISO 50001).
As per the end of 2014, out of a total of 106 Group production sites,
90 held a valid ISO 14001 certificate (see table). Alongside the
­Volks­wa­gen brand’s production locations, Audi, Lamborghini and

EMAS

ISO 14001

ISO 50001

22 (22)

90 (89)

26 (22)

Some locations apply both EMAS and ISO 14001.
A list of all certified locations can be found on the Internet.
36

VV Environmental management in line with
international standards.

V V CO R P O R AT E E N V I R O N M E N TA L & E N E RG Y S T E E R I N G G R O U P

CO R P O R AT E C S R & S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T E E R I N G G R O U P

CO R P O R AT E
­E N V I R O N M E N TA L &
­E N E R G Y S T E E R I N G
GROUP

> O verarching
­f unction
> General overview
> Benchmarking
> Reporting
> Recommendations

MODULES

Company

Product­ 
planning and
development

Suppliers

Logistics

Production

O V E R A R C H I N G I M P L E M E N TAT I O N O F E N V I R O N M E N TA L G OA L S

88

Sales and
marketing

Recycling

M A N AG E M E N T A P P R O A C H

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

Engaging the Workforce, Living our Principles,
Inspiring Others

V V E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O G R A M S A N D I N I T I AT I V E S O F T H E B R A N D S

Informing and engaging our employees is particularly important to us as a Group. We have created an intranet portal to showcase best practice examples and facilitate direct contact with the
­relevant colleagues. The portal also outlines basic guidelines
and ­energy-saving tips, including some generated by the central
­ideas management system. A “Works Agreement on Environmental Protection” has been in place at the ­Volks­wa­gen AG factories since 1995, and was most recently updated in 2013.

Audi: In 2014 the Board of Management of AUDI AG chose “ultra” as
the brand’s leitmotiv for pioneering sustainability topics. As a result, “ultra” now stands for the aim of forging a close link between
our core brand message “Vorsprung durch Technik” and sustainability, and is the banner under which the concrete sustainability activi38
ties are bundled.
Bentley: The “Bentley Environmental Factory” program has a fiveyear plan to reduce the environmental footprint of each vehicle by
39
25% by 2018.

VV Environmental programs anchored
within the Group brands.

Lamborghini: The Environmental Strategy aims to make the brand’s
only location in Sant’Agata Bolognese (Italy) climate-neutral by the
40
end of 2015.

Since 2010, the international umbrella brand “Think Blue.” has
encapsulated the sustainability philosophy of the ­Volks­wa­gen
and ­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicle brands, which aims to
­balance the need for personal mobility with environmental
awareness. “Think Blue.” is much more than just products and
technologies. It is designed to inspire and motivate employees,
customers and the general public, and cooperates with environmental organizations around the world. Since 2010, “Think
Blue.” has continuously evolved throughout every stage of the
value chain in all V
­ olks­wa­gen brand-related business units, and
in 2014 was extended to car dealerships in Germany. The central
components of the “Think Blue.” philosophy are:

MAN : The MAN Climate Strategy sets the target of reducing absolute CO2 emissions at its production locations by 25% by 2020 compared to a 2008 baseline. Because MAN joined the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group in 2012, its Climate Strategy, adopted in 2011, differs from
the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s Environmental and Sustainability Strategy,
41
which has a target date of 2018.

Porsche: Porsche’s environmental efforts center around efficiency,
including the continuous improvement of environmental and energy management systems at its locations, as well as a commitment
to making each new generation of vehicles around 20% more effi42
cient.

>> Think Blue. Engineering. Since late 2012, this strategy has
brought together all programs and measures aimed at continuously improving the environmental performance of new models,
based on the Environmental Goals of the Technical Development department (see page 94).
>> Think Blue. Factory. is a program launched by the ­Volks­wa­gen
brand in 2011, which aims to reduce consumption of energy and
water, the volume of waste for disposal, solvent emissions and
CO2 emissions per unit produced by 25% at all our factories
worldwide by 2018 compared with 2010 levels (see page 100).
>> Think Blue. Dealer. is an initiative to address energy efficiency
in areas other than production. By 2018, the aim is to advise
up to 60% of dealers worldwide on energy efficiency-related
matters (see page 107).
>> Think Blue. Mobility. provides information on efficient powertrains and technologies, V
­ olks­wa­gen-brand electric vehicles,
and our wide range of electric mobility services. With well
thought-through service packages such as our green electricity
product “BluePower” or wallbox installation (see pages 108,
109), the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand rigorously pursues a 360° approach
to electric mobility.
Further information on “Think Blue.”:

Scania: At Scania, the concept for reducing energy consumption and
43
CO2 emissions is called “Ecolution by Scania”.
SEAT: “ECOMOTIVE ” is the name of SEAT ’s comprehensive environ-

mental program. ECOMOTIVE FACTORY is an umbrella term for all
environmental measures associated with manufacturing processes.
Among other things, the program aims to become a pioneering
force for environmental protection in vehicle manufacturing by
44
2018, in line with the corporate objectives.
ŠKODA : The brand combines its environmental activities under the

strategy umbrella “GreenFuture”. Its three pillars – GreenProduct,
GreenFactory and GreenRetail – center on the sustainable manu45
facturing and marketing of increasingly eco-friendly cars.

37

89

ENVIRONMENT

VV RE B O U N D

REBOUND EFFECT
ARE THE BENEFITS OF GREATER EFFICIENCY BEING EATEN UP BY GROWTH?
Cars are becoming increasingly fuel-efficient. Producing them is becoming more energy-efficient. As a rule,
­however, this progress doesn’t lead to an absolute drop in consumption if the companies concerned and
their ­markets are simultaneously growing. The benefits of greater efficiency, so the argument runs, are entirely
or at least p
­ artially eaten up. So how can a growth strategy be compatible with responsible management?

­ olks­wa­gen is growing fast – unit sales are up 40 percent
V
over 2010, sales revenue has moved ahead 60 percent, while
the workforce has expanded from under 400,000 to almost
600,000 employees. Over the same period we have managed to
cut CO2 emissions per vehicle built by 23 percent, while in
­a bsolute terms they have increased by roughly 6 percent.
A glance at the use phase shows that, thanks to innovative
­engineering, our vehicles are becoming increasingly efficient,
­w itness the drop in our EU corporate average fleet emissions
to around 126 g CO2 /km. Making each new model significantly
more fuel-efficient than its predecessor is one of our corporate
goals. Apart from which we also encourage our customers to
adopt as economical a style of driving as possible – and offer
free courses to help them do so, not least in conjunction with
NA BU.
­Volks­wa­gen’s strategy is not about growth at all costs. It’s
about sustainable growth. Restricting corporate growth is
­a lien to any competitive system. In fact it’s inherent to competition to conquer new markets by offering superior solutions,
by offering innovations. We leverage innovations to make not

Wolfram Thomas ,
Group Chief Officer for the Environment,
Energy and New Business Areas

only our products but also our production processes even
more efficient.
­Volks­wa­gen aims to develop and sell the world’s most efficient
cars. In this we square up to the global competition. As economic history has shown many times over, there are no innovations without growth and competition. Dispensing with
growth is irreconcilable with a responsible corporate strategy
that targets a balance between ecological, economic and social
sustainability.

G RO U P-WI D E PRO G R A M S

Climate Protection Strategy

The high pressure to innovate and the growing demands placed
on the automotive industry by CO2 legislation necessitate high
levels of expenditure on research and development. In 2014, the
­Volks­wa­gen Group invested €11.5 billion in research and development. This expenditure is set to increase over the next few
years: between 2015 and 2019, the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group Auto­
motive Division is planning to invest around €85.6 billion in new
models, innovative technologies and its global presence. Around
two-thirds of all investments are dedicated to more efficient
­vehicles, alternative powertrains and more environmentally
compatible production. The investment program has earmarked
€21.9 billion for development work alone. The total investment
sum of €85.6 billion does not include our joint ventures in China,
which will be investing a further €22.0 billion in new factories
and products between 2015 and 2019, financed from their own
funds.

Climate protection is at the heart of the Group’s environmental
management philosophy, spanning every stage of the value creation process. We report regularly on our climate protection strategy to the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project),
a consortium of institutional investors. In 2014, the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group was again awarded 99 out of a possible 100 points for its
transparency, and a top grade of A for its performance (see page
49), as well as being listed in both Leadership Indices.
Absolute CO2 emissions from our in-house energy generation at
production locations (Scope 1) and from purchased energy (Scope
2) increased slightly in recent years, whilst specific emissions (in
kg per vehicle) have fallen. This can be explained by the increase
in production volume, coupled with an increase in the volume of
purchased energy (see Indicators). One of the Group’s key environmental targets is to reduce specific energy consumption per
vehicle during production by 25% by 2018 (compared with the
90

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

G R O U P -W I D E P R O G R A M S

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

­Volks­w a­gen delivered the first XL1• in May 2014. With test cycle fuel consumption of 0.9 l/100 km, this is the world’s first “1-liter” car.

base year 2010), and to cut specific CO2 emissions by the same
amount.
For our German locations, which currently account for around
45% of our Group-wide CO2 emissions from production, the
­Volks­wa­gen Group has set itself an even more ambitious target:
CO2 emissions from energy supplies in Germany are to be reduced
by 40% by 2020 compared with 2010. We aim to achieve this by
improving energy efficiency, partially replacing coal with gas in
our in-house energy production, and purchasing electricity from
renewable sources. We are urgently awaiting a clear political
framework for the energy industry in order to make further investments in power station conversion measures.

of this analysis poses a number of major challenges for companies
in terms of both data collation and interpretation. The ­Volks­wa­gen
Group is one of the forerunners here and collates data in 12 out of
the 15 Scope 3 categories.
Our data indicates that the emission category “Purchased goods
and services” accounts for around 17% of the total Scope 3 Inventory, and the “Use phase” 75%. The data from both these categories is
validated by external auditors. The Inventory reveals that our most
effective lever for cutting CO2 emissions is the development of
more ­fuel-efficient vehicles.

Powertrain and Fuel Strategy
Continuous fuel efficiency improvements for our gasoline and
diesel engines, a range of CNG vehicles and further electrification of the model portfolio – these are the cornerstones of the
­Volks­wa­gen Group’s Powertrain and Fuel Strategy (for further
details see Product Development, pages 94 – 99). According to
the Center of Automotive Management, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group is
now the world’s leading powertrain innovator (see page 37). Our
Powertrain and Fuel Strategy also aims to replace fossil fuels
with renewables, as part of our long-term goal of achieving
­carbon-neutral mobility.
Today, most of our customers across the world still opt for conventionally powered vehicles. So for a long time to come, electrified

V V G R E E N H O U S E G A S I N V E N TO RY TO O L (S CO P E 3)

Alongside production-related energy consumption, the fuel consumption of our fleet is another key consideration. Since 2012, the
­Volks­wa­gen Group has published a so-called Scope 3 Inventory for
CO2 Emissions (see page 128), corresponding to the Scope 3 Standard of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD ) and the World Resources Institute (WRI ). The Inventory
analyzes CO2 emissions generated outside the factory gates, for
­example in the supply chain, and in the use and disposal of vehicles.
Other examples of emission sources covered by the Scope 3 Inventory include logistics processes and business trips. The wider scope

91

ENVIRONMENT

powertrains and conventional internal combustion engines will
continue to coexist as parallel technologies. However, this technological diversity will be accompanied by a steady increase in the use
of carbon-neutral fuels, for example in the form of renewable
­electricity for electric vehicles, or next-generation biofuels – most
notably biomethane from organic waste, and synthetic natural gas.

The Audi e-gas project has implications that go far beyond the
­automotive industry. E-gas has potential not only as a carbon-­
neutral, renewable fuel, but also as a means of storing large
amounts of r­ enewable wind or solar power efficiently and independently of where the power is actually generated – by converting it into methane gas and storing it in the natural gas grid.
­Power-to-gas technology has now also been embraced by a number of major German energy providers, who are following Audi’s
lead with initial ­projects of their own.

VV The V
­ olks­wa­gen Group is the world’s
leading powertrain innovator.

Our Commitment to Emissions Targets
“Power-to-gas” storage of renewable electricity in the form of
synthetic hydrocarbons is a sustainable energy technology
whose importance extends far beyond the automotive industry.
The Audi e-gas plant in Werlte (Germany) – the world’s first industrial power-to-gas plant – was connected to the grid in 2013.
This plant produces methane from a chemical process involving
wind power, CO 2 and water. As far as possible, the electricity is
used at times when the grid has surplus supply, and when wind
turbines, for example, would normally have to be shut down.
This surplus green power is first used to split water molecules
into oxygen and hydrogen. At some point in the future it may be
possible to use this hydrogen in fuel cell vehicles. However, the
large-scale hydrogen storage, distribution and refueling infrastructure this will require has yet to be developed. At the present
time therefore, the second step in the process is methanation,
whereby the hydrogen reacts with CO 2 to produce synthetic
methane. The resulting Audi “e-gas” meets the same quality
standards as fossil-based natural gas. The Werlte plant has been
feeding this gas to the German grid since autumn 2013. E-gas
can be purchased at CNG filling stations throughout Germany,
using a special Audi e-gas fuel card. Werlte is currently expected
to be able to produce enough e-gas to power up to 1,500 Audi A3
Sportback g-tron• models for 15,000 km of carbon-neutral
­d riving per year (see page 109).

In the context of our commitment to the World Business Council
for Sustainable Development ( W BCSD) we are supporting the
“W BCSD Road to Paris”, which is aimed at ensuring successful
­d iscussions on the realization of the “2 degrees” target at the United
Nations COP 21 climate conference in Paris at the end of 2015.
Back in March 2013, the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group set a benchmark when
it became the first and only automaker to commit to the ambitious
goal of reducing its European new-car fleet-average emissions to
95 g CO2 /km by 2020.
Emissions of 95 g CO2 /km correspond to average fuel consumption
across all vehicle classes and segments of less than 4 l/100 km
(gasoline: 4.1 l, diesel: 3.6 l). Greenpeace Germany hailed
­Volks­wa­gen’s decision as an “important symbol of commitment to
environmental protection and society, and to the mass production
of climate-friendly technical solutions.” Today, 57 models from the
Group’s portfolio already emit meet the target of 95 g CO2 /km.
For 2015, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s individual target for its average
new-car emissions under EU law is 132 g CO2/km. In fact, we were
able to comply with this target ahead of schedule. This was confirmed
in figures published by the European Commission in the Official
Journal of the European Union, L315, in November 2014, which
showed that the average new-car CO2 emissions of the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group in 2013 already stood at 129 g CO2/km (at the time of going to
press, the latest data indicates that the figure for 2014 was 126 g).

V V T H E R OA D TO C A R B O N - N E U T R A L M O B I L I T Y

CONVENTIONAL ELECTR IC ITY

Fuel cell
Battery power
CAR B ON-N EUTR AL ELECTR IC ITY

Plug-in hybrid
CA R B O N - N EUTR AL FU ELS

(liquid, gaseous)

Hybrid drive
Combustion engine

CONVENTIONAL FU ELS

92

CAR B ONN EUTR AL
sustainable
mobility

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

G R O U P -W I D E P R O G R A M S

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

With the TGX Hybrid, at the IA A Commercial Vehicles show in September
2014 MAN showcased a concept hybrid model for long-distance haulage.

The Audi A3 g-tron• presents a level of fuel efficiency previously confined to
sub-compact models.

For light commercial vehicles (vans), the EU has set CO2 emissions
targets of 175 g/km for 2017 and 147 g/km for 2020. Here too we
are making excellent headway: in 2014, the average new-vehicle
CO2 emissions of the ­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles brand’s
models stood at 171 g/km.
In the meantime, other major markets too have adopted caps
on new-car CO2 emissions. In China, ­Volks­wa­gen Passenger
Cars models comply with the corporate average fuel consumption limits in force in that market since 2012. And measures are
in the ­pipeline for further ambitious improvements, including
improvements to the efficiency of our internal combustion engines and the introduction of alternative drive technologies. For
2015, China has set a new-car fleet-average fuel consumption
target of 6.9 l/100 km. In the USA and Canada, a cap of 103 g
CO2 /km will apply from 2025.

vehicle manufacturers, however, we must comply with this legally
mandated test cycle. NEDC figures are the only figures we are
­allowed to quote. Now, the European Union is considering the
­introduction of a new test cycle, the “World Light Vehicle Test Procedure” (WLTP ), which is designed to more closely represent modern driving conditions. Like the NEDC , the WLTP aims to provide an
objective measurement standard for comparing technical products. The run-up to the WLTP ’s scheduled introduction should be
used to define a transparent and sustainably robust conversion
procedure, because the existing EU target of 95 g CO2/km for 2020
was also defined on the basis of the values generated in the NEDC
test cycle.

Resource Efficiency
Resource efficiency is a topic of exceptional strategic importance
for ­Volks­wa­gen. Across their life cycle, we must ensure that our
products’ consumption of natural resources is kept to a minimum. By using resources efficiently, we can reduce not only environmental impacts but also manufacturing costs. In line with the
recommendations of the EU ’s European Resource Efficiency Platform, we focus particularly on our consumption of raw materials,
energy, water, air and land.
Improving resource efficiency at V
­ olks­wa­gen is a matter for the
entire Group. All business areas make their own specific contribution to this challenge, and use their own specific indicators to
measure and manage their performance. Systematic planning
and implementation is coordinated by the Corporate Resource
Efficiency Steering Group, which comprises members from a

VV By using resources efficiently, we can
reduce not only environmental impacts
but also manufacturing costs.
V V N E D C T E S T C YC L E CO M E S I N F O R C R I T I C I S M

The New European Driving Cycle (NEDC ), the procedure used by
the EU to measure passenger car fuel consumption, has repeatedly
come in for criticism from environmental organizations. The critics
claim that the CO2 emissions measured under the NEDC ’s 20-minute laboratory-based test cycle are much lower than the figures
generated under realistic modern driving conditions. Like all other

93

ENVIRONMENT

variety of business areas and brands. Currently the Steering
Group is developing a methodology for measuring resource efficiency based on a defined set of indicators. For the general public, the term “resource efficiency” tends to be interpreted very
broadly, covering many different environmental aspects, and
meaning different things to different people. The challenge
therefore is to develop a set of indicators that on the one hand
are meaningful to the public, while at the same time providing a
fit-for-purpose controlling tool for in-house decision-makers.
In parallel, a pool of best practices on resource efficiency is being developed, which will be made available to other business
areas and brands.
46

V V “ T H I N K B L U E . E N G I N E E R I N G .” AWA R D S

In 2014, the ­Volks­wa­gen brand presented its internal “Think Blue.
Engineering.” awards for the second year in a row. Organized by
­Volks­wa­gen Research and Development, the awards – in the categories “Product” and “Research and Development” – were presented to five environmentally outstanding projects in the fields
of ­climate, resources and health. An award was also presented for
personal dedication. Like the Internal Environmental Award,
which they replace, the purpose of the “Think Blue. Engineering.”
awards – and the “Think Blue. Factory.” awards on the production
side – is to reward employees for outstanding environmental
commitment.

VV Environmental considerations from
the very earliest stages of the product
development process.

Life Cycle Engineering
“Life Cycle Engineering” aims to improve the environmental
footprint of a vehicle from cradle to grave. This process begins
with a Life Cycle Assessment (LC A ), in which the environmental
impacts of the vehicle under development are assessed across the
full life cycle – from resource extraction, through production and
operation to eventual recycling. The LC A analysis makes it possible to identify those areas where improvements will have the biggest effect. These are the areas we then prioritize in our innovation activities. In 2013 the Corporate Steering Group “Life Cycle
Engineering” was set up, comprising experts from the brands.
Their goal is to harmonize the guidelines and methodology for
Life Cycle Assessments across the entire Group and to support
best practice-sharing between successful Life Cycle Engineering
projects.

PRO D U C T PL A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T
Our product planning and development processes are geared to
developing vehicles that offer best possible fuel economy and
­resource efficiency. Our corporate goals demand that all new vehicles and technologies improve on the environmental performance
of their predecessors, across the entire life cycle. Every new vehicle
generation must be between 10 and 15% more efficient than its
predecessor. To achieve this, we take environmental considerations into account from the very earliest stages of the product development process. The Group Environmental Principles Product
have defined the key goals of the continuous improvement process
as climate, resources and health.
For products of the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand, the development process is
guided by the “Think Blue. Engineering.” Environmental Goals of
the Technical Development department. These goals were revised
in October 2014, and now include a commitment to “best-in-class
fuel consumption in the driving cycle and over the vehicle’s service
life”. To protect the health of vehicle occupants and road users, the
brand has also once again adopted more rigorous requirements
on interior emissions and noise levels. The Technical Development
departments of the other Group brands have adopted similar environmental objectives.
47

Life Cycle Assessments and Environmental
­Commendations
In its Environmental Commendations, the ­Volks­wa­gen brand
sums up the improvements in life cycle environmental performance between new and previous models. ­Volks­wa­gen Passenger
Cars and ­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles have been publishing
Environmental Commendations for new models and technologies
ever since 2007. These detailed analyses are certified by independent auditor TÜV NORD to confirm that they are based on
­reliable data and were drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the LCA standards ISO 14040 and 14044. An Environmental Commendation has also been published for the e-Golf •,
which went on sale in 2014. It testifies to the excellent environmental footprint of the e-Golf•, even when powered by conventional electricity. When charged with green electricity, the e-Golf’s
life cycle CO2 emissions are reduced by a further 50%.
Audi has been producing Life Cycle Assessments for new model
series since 2010. LCAs have been performed – and validated by
T Ü V NORD – for the Audi A3•, the Audi A6•, the Audi T T• and the
Audi e-gas project (see page 92). Most recently, a Life Cycle
­A ssessment was published in August 2014 for the new Audi T T

V V E U N E W V E H I C L E R E G I S T R AT I O N S 2 01 4

Emissions category

Proportion of total deliveries
of ­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars and Commercial
Vehicles, Audi, SEAT and ŠKODA

≤ 95 g CO2 /km

3.42%

≤ 100 g CO2 /km

10.42%

≤ 120 g CO2 /km

55.15%

≤ 130 g CO2 /km

67.61%

94

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

G R O U P -W I D E P R O G R A M S

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

VV RE D U C TI O N I N V E H I CL E EM I SSI O N S

Technologies to improve
CO2 efficiency

EU fleet figure
in 2006

166 g CO2/km

EU fleet figure
in 2012

134 g CO2/km

EU fleet figure
in 2020

95 g CO2/km

Optimizing conventional
­drivetrains

F L E E T CO 2 E M I S S I O N S

CO2 efficiency measures
in the vehicle
Using alternative drive
technologies

Battery Electric Vehicle
Fuel cell
TECHNOLOGIES AND ENERGY SOURCES

Coupé•. It shows that the model-year-2015 Audi T T Coupé• generates total life cycle CO2 emissions of 44.5 t – an 11% improvement
over its predecessor. This good environmental footprint is partly
down to lightweight engineering based on intelligent multi-­
material design, which shaves 50 kg off the unladen weight of
the previous model. This means reduced fuel consumption
­during the use phase, which not only reduces driving emissions
but also means that less fuel needs to be produced in the first
place, which again cuts CO2 emissions.
48

introduced in 2012, marks a revolution in automaking in two
ways: firstly in terms of efficiency and secondly in terms of our ability to integrate technologies of the future. What our engineers have
done, basically, is to create a system that allows any volume-production model to be equipped with any type of powertrain, with
no additional engineering effort. In this way the MQB will allow
us to electrify more than 40 different models over the coming
years.

Efficiency Models (TSI and TDI ) 2014

­ olks­wa­gen: In the Polo TSI BlueMotion• – the first ever Polo BlueV
Motion model to be fitted with a TSI engine – in 2014 engine management improvements reduced fuel consumption by a further 0.2
liters to 4.1 l/100 km, with CO2 emissions of just 94 g/km. As a result, the TSI BlueMotion• is also the first ever gasoline-engined
Polo to receive a class A label for energy efficiency and to achieve
best-in-class ratings for fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.
Like all Polo models, it also complies with the strict Euro 6 emissions standards.
Meanwhile the new Polo TDI BlueMotion•, like its predecessors, is
setting a benchmark in the five-seater diesel market. Its newly
­developed three-cylinder TDI engine returns fuel consumption of
just 3.1 l/100 km (corresponding to CO2 emissions of 82 g/km).
This is an improvement of 0.2 l/100 km over the already highly

New Models from the Brands
The ­Volks­wa­gen Group’s commitment to offering a broad array of
technologies differentiates the company from many of its competitors. Alongside further improved gasoline ( TSI ) and diesel
( T DI ) engines, the Group’s technology portfolio and development
activities also span natural-gas vehicles, all-electric vehicles and
­hybrid vehicles featuring battery and fuel-cell drive. This broadbased approach dovetails with the Group’s goal of developing
­attractive and affordable vehicles to cater to the widest possible
spectrum of requirements. Our vehicles must use scarce resources as efficiently as possible, while at the same time offering
highest standards of comfort and convenience.
­Volks­wa­gen’s aim is to explore and exploit the potential of all types
of powertrain. Our Modular Transverse Matrix (MQB ), which we

95

ENVIRONMENT

VV D RI V E D I V E R SIT Y I N TH E MQ B

CO N V E N T I O N A L

D I E S E L /G A S O L I N E

R E N E WA B L E / E L E C T R I C

D I E S E L /G A S O L I N E

F L E X F U E L ( E T H A N O L )/
TG I C N G

ELECTRIC DRIVE

­efficient predecessor model, and gives the Polo TDI BlueMotion• a
maximum range of 1,400 km – enough to drive all the way from
Flensburg in Germany to Venice in Italy on one tank of fuel. This
benchmark fuel economy was achieved with the aid of underbody
modifications, a polished radiator grille insert and aerodynamically perfected front and rear spoilers. These drag-reduction
measures are complemented by low-rolling-resistance tires.

FUEL CELL

PLUG-IN HYBRID

430 km, while the standard-fitted gasoline tank extends the total
range to almost 1,400 km.

SEAT : Active cylinder management in the new Leon• and Ibiza•

Audi: The A3 Sportback g-tron•, the first volume-production CNG
model from Audi, sets a benchmark in carbon-neutral long-range
mobility. When powered by Audi e-gas (see page 109), which customers can purchase using the optional Audi e-gas fuel card, the
A3 Sportback g-tron’s• tailpipe CO2 emissions are fully offset by
the amount of CO2 absorbed when manufacturing this fuel in the
first place. On fuel efficiency too this model breaks new ground,
with test cycle CNG consumption of between 3.2 and 3.3 kg/
100 km (depending on transmission), which corresponds to CO 2
emissions of between 88 and 92 g/km – the sort of figures which in
the past were confined to sub-compact models.

models combines fuel economy with performance. In the low to
medium rpm range, two of the engine’s four cylinders are shut
down to save fuel. At higher rpm they are reactivated, to harness
full power.

SEAT : Since September 2014, SE AT has been offering a natural
gas version of its Leon ST• model (the 1.4 TGI ). With fuel consumption in CNG mode of 3.5 kg/100 km and CO2 emissions of 96 g/km,

Audi: In June 2014, the German Bundestag added 66 extra-­f uelefficient 140-kW Audi A6 2.0 TDI ultra• limousines to its fleet.
With CO2 emissions of just 114 g/km, this model is one of the most
­f uel-efficient premium automobiles in its segment.

this is one of the most eco-friendly and fuel-efficient combustion-engined vehicles on the market. The SE AT portfolio also
­i ncludes the Mii Ecofuel• and the CNG -powered Leon TGI•.

Natural Gas Models in 2014

­ olks­wa­gen: The newly released Golf Estate TGI BlueMotion• is
V
powered by a natural gas engine that combines fuel efficiency with
dynamic performance. On models with a dual-clutch gearbox, this
four-cylinder bi-fuel natural gas/gasoline unit returns fuel consumption of just 3.5 kg CNG /100 km in natural gas mode, with CO2
emissions of just 95 g/km. The CNG -only range is approximately

Plug-in Hybrid Models in 2014

­ olks­w a­gen: In 2014, ­Volks­wa­gen launched the Golf GTE•, its
V
first volume-production plug-in hybrid model. Combining a
­75-kW electric motor with a 110-kW TSI internal combustion
96

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

engine, the Golf GTE• returns average NEDC fuel consumption
of just 1.5 l of gasoline and 11.4 kWh of electricity per 100 km,
which corresponds to CO 2 emissions of just 35 g/km. The GTE
has a maximum all-electric driving range of 50 km and a total
range of 940 km. Elsewhere in the portfolio, May 2014 saw the
first deliveries of the ­Volks­wa­gen XL1. This limited-production
model built in O
­ snabrück (Germany) is a technological game-­
changer. With test cycle fuel consumption of 0.9 l/100 km, the
XL1• is the first “one-­l iter” car (capable of 100 km on one liter of
fuel) in the world. Its plug-in hybrid system gives this two-seater
an electric-only range (with zero local emissions) of up to 50
km. In 2014, the XL1• ­received the “Design of the Year” award –
in the category “Transport Design” – from the Design Museum
in London.
The Paris Motor Show in September 2014 saw the world premiere
of the Passat GTE•, the first plug-in hybrid V
­ olks­wa­gen available in
both sedan and estate versions. The Passat GTE• has a zero-emission all-electric range of 50 km, and a total range on one tank of
fuel and a fully charged battery of more than 1,000 km. NEDC fuel
consumption is less than 2.0 l/100 km (less than 45 g CO2 /km),
while top speed is 220 km/h in hybrid mode, and 130 km/h in
all-electric “e-mode”. The Passat GTE• will arrive on the market in
the second half of 2015.
Audi: The second half of 2014 saw the European launch of the
A3 Sportback e-tron•, Audi’s first plug-in hybrid model. Fuel consumption as per the NEDC test cycle for plug-in hybrid vehicles is
1.5 l/100 km, with CO2 emissions of 35 g/km. This model has a
maximum all-electric range of 50 km, and a combined range of
more than 900 km.

The Cayenne S E-Hybrid• has a maximum all-electric range of between 18 and 36 km, depending on driving style and topography.

V V E L E C T R I C M O B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E I N C H I N A

With total investment of more than €18 billion in new vehicles and
technologies, new factory capacity and new, eco-friendly models,
the ­Volks­wa­gen Group has launched the biggest electric mobility
initiative in Chinese automotive history. In 2015, the Group’s existing fleet of highly efficient and innovative models, which already
includes the Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid•, will be joined by the
Audi A3 e-tron and the Golf GTE . From 2016, two models developed specifically for the Chinese market will follow: the Audi A6
and a new mid-size sedan from the ­Volks­wa­gen brand. Both these
plug-in hybrid models are being co-developed with joint venture
partners FAW  ­Volks­wa­gen and Shanghai ­Volks­wa­gen, and will be
built in China. The modular platform, which is being implemented
at the Chinese factories too, will in future allow the Group to electrify every model in the range, right across the spectrum from compact cars to large limousines, and from all-electric to plug-in hybrid
models.

Electric Vehicles in 2014

Porsche: In 2014, Porsche presented the Cayenne S E-Hybrid•, the
first plug-in hybrid premium SU V. The combined output of the two
drive systems is 416 hp (306 kW) while combined-cycle fuel consumption is 3.4 l/100 km, with CO2 emissions of just 79 g/km.

­ olks­wa­gen: In 2014, the V
V
­ olks­wa­gen e-Golf • went on sale in
­Europe, Asia and North America. The e-Golf • delivers average
­energy consumption of 12.7 kWh/100 km, and a driving range of
up to 190 km on a single battery charge. When powered by green
electricity (for example “BluePower”, see page 109), the e-Golf is
carbon-neutral.
A T Ü V NORD -certified Environmental Commendation has
­a lready been issued for the e-Golf •. Three intuitively selectable
driving modes (“Normal”, “Eco” and “Eco+”) and four equally

The SEAT Leon ST• is one of the most eco-friendly and fuel-efficient
c­ ombustion-engined vehicles on the market.

The Cayenne S E-Hybrid• is the first plug-in hybrid in the premium SUV
s­ egment.

97

ENVIRONMENT

Fuel-Cell Models
As a further important step in our agenda for zero-carbon mobility, the ­Volks­wa­gen brand is also developing the Golf Estate
­HyMotion concept vehicle. The press and public got their first
chance to see – and drive – this vehicle in November 2014, at the
Los Angeles Auto Show. The Golf Estate HyMotion is fueled by
­hydrogen (H 2) and oxygen. A reaction takes place in the fuel cell
between the hydrogen and oxygen, which combine to produce
water. A byproduct of this reaction is electricity, which is used to
power a zero-emission electric motor. The hydrogen is stored
safely under the vehicle in four carbon-fiber tanks. The Golf
­Estate HyMotion has a maximum range of 500 km. Refueling
takes just three minutes.
With this concept model, the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand is demonstrating
for the first time that hydrogen fuel cells are yet another drive technology that could be implemented using the MQB platform, as
soon as research and development work is completed and a solution can be offered at a price acceptable to new-car buyers. Before
any future market rollout however, a comprehensive hydrogen
production and refueling infrastructure first needs to be put in
place. At the same time, hydrogen propulsion only makes environmental sense if the primary energy used to produce this fuel is
­renewable.

The fuel cell drive in the Golf Estate HyMotion concept vehicle runs on
­hydrogen and oxygen.

easily e­ ngageable recuperation levels help drivers achieve maximum driving range per charge. Other functions include the
“­Volks­wa­gen Car-Net-e-Remote” app, which allows a smartphone to be used to remotely launch battery charging, activate
cabin pre-heating or cooling whenever the vehicle is on charge,
or access vehicle data.
In spring 2014, the e-Golf took part in the world’s leading electric
vehicle rally “World Advanced Vehicle Expedition” ( WAV E ),
which this time took the drivers from Stuttgart to Lucerne. Over
the rally stages, some of which were over 200 km in length, the
e-Golf took first place in the main “Popular Wave” category. In
the Silvretta electric car rally in July 2014, the e-Golf demonstrated its everyday versatility in particularly challenging terrain.
Here too, it was crowned overall event winner. Finally, in October
2014, the e-Golf won the “eCarTec Award 2014”, the Bavarian
State Award for E
­ lectric and Hybrid Mobility.

Commercial Vehicles in 2014
­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles: In October 2014, Leibniz
University Hanover launched a twelve-month field trial with six
electrically powered V
­ olks­
wa­
gen Caddy small urban delivery
vans. ­Volks­wa­gen expects that data from this trial, on aspects
such as daily mileage, energy consumption and battery life and
capacity, will provide valuable input for its ongoing development
work on electric commercial vehicles. The e-Caddy has a maximum range of 136 km – more than sufficient to cover the average
daily runs of an urban delivery van. At the end of 2014, a total of
40 e-Caddies from V
­ olks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles were involved in field trials.
M AN : M A N is the European market leader in natural gas-powered buses. In 2014, the M A N Lion’s City GL CNG articulated bus

was named “Bus of the Year 2015” in the Bus Euro Test. With its
CNG -powered Euro 6 engine, this model offers an extremely
low-pollutant, climate-friendly answer to the challenges of urban
transport. When operated on biogas, its carbon footprint is virtually zero.
Meanwhile, as part of M A N ’s drive technology program, hybrid
drives are set to be rolled out in the near future across all commercial vehicle applications. However, different bus and truck appli­
cations – urban operation, long-distance operation or special-­
purpose vehicles – present very different requirements, which
demand different hybrid concepts to match. At the 2014 I A A Commercial Vehicles show in September, M A N presented a concept
vehicle with parallel diesel/electric hybrid drive system for longhaul applications. The diesel engine provides the main source of
drive power, but the hybrid drive system also allows braking

VV The modular transverse matrix enables
us to integrate all the relevant drive
systems – from conventional to fuel cell.
With the e-Golf ­Volks­wa­gen has completed the circle, becoming
the first carmaker in the world to offer all currently relevant drive
systems within one model series. For an automaker, this represents a very high level of manufacturing flexibility, and it was
the modular transverse matrix that made it possible. Moreover, in
the wake of models like the all-electric e-Golf and the plug-in
­hybrid Golf GTE•, our strategy will also allow us at a future date,
and ­subject to market demand, to integrate a further technology –
fuel cells – into an attractively priced production vehicle with great
everyday driveability.
98

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

V V CO 2 E M I SS I O N S – S TAT U S Q U O

Number of vehicles
≤ 100 g CO2 /km

85

≤ 120 g CO2 /km

416

≤ 130 g CO2 /km

532
2012

2013

2014

V V M A R K E T P E N E T R AT I O N O F E F F I C I E N C Y M O D E L S O F T H E ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P I N 2 01 4

Brand
­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars

Unit sales of eco-/
efficiency models 2014, EU-281

Model
VWP BlueMotion

23,361

+ BlueMotion Technology

902,419

Blue TDI models

6,479

Ecofuel models (CNG )

22,336

MultiFuel models (E85)

1,893

BiFuel models (LPG )

–
3,902

BEV

Hybrid

1,821

Total eco-/efficiency models
­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles

962,211

VWN BlueMotion

76,846
3,507

CNG

359

LPG

Total eco-/efficiency models

83,076

e-models

67,401

Clean Diesel (EU6)

159,600

including ultra

19,183

FlexFuel (E85)

304

CNG models

5,926

Hybrid

1,765

Start-Stop

687,343

including e-, ultra-, CD , E85, CNG

223,695

Total eco-/efficiency models

689,108

ŠKODA Greenline

20,221

+ Green tec packages

40,551

CNG models
SEAT

65,221

SEAT e-ecomotive

17,141

551,906

166,843

LPG models

148

CNG models

3,926

Total eco-/efficiency models

188,058

Sum total
1

698,240

4,449

Total eco-/efficiency models
+ ecomotive packages

­Volks­wa­gen Group

293,079

9,647

ultra-models

ŠKODA

1,479,944

2,364

+ BlueMotion Technology

Audi

Total unit sales in 2014, EU-281

317,953
3,341,122

Austria, Baltic States, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, W. Europe (rest).

99

ENVIRONMENT

PRO D U C T I O N A N D L O G I ST I C S

­energy to be recuperated, stored and reused. Since long-haul
transport accounts for the lion’s share of road transportation
mileage, this is where use of hybrid technology stands to bring the
biggest benefits in terms of CO2 emissions.

By 2018, the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group is aiming to have cut its specific
energy and water consumption, CO2 emissions, solvent emissions
( VOC ) and volume of waste per vehicle manufactured by 25%,
compared with the 2010 baseline. This goal applies across all the
Group’s production locations, and builds on the general production process requirements defined in the Group Environmental
Principles.
In terms of environmental impact reduction per unit of production, by the end of 2014 we were already more than half-way to our
goal for 2018, having cut production-related environmental impacts by 19.3% (2013: 12.5%) compared with 2010 levels. This
breaks down as follows (2013 figures in brackets):

Scania: The Scania G 410 • Euro 6 was presented with a “Green
Truck 2014” award by trade magazines VerkehrsRundschau and
TRUCK ER , which named it the greenest truck in its class. With
­average fuel consumption of 23.3 l/100 km and CO2 emissions of
734 g/km, Scania’s semitrailer tractor came first by a wide margin
in these magazines’ environmental rankings.

V V C O 2 L I M I T S F O R T R U C K S A N D B U S E S

>> Specific energy consumption: 
>> Specific CO2 emissions: 
>> Specific water consumption: 
>> Specific VOC emissions: 
>> Specific waste for disposal: 

Having already implemented legislation to reduce the CO2 emissions of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, in May 2014
the European Commission presented its strategy for reducing the
CO2 emissions of trucks and buses. The aim is to evaluate the
­carbon emissions of the entire EU heavy-duty vehicle fleet as realistically as possible, for defined vehicle categories and driving
­c ycles. Before the EU takes any final decision however, an impact
assessment first needs to be carried out to identify the most
cost-effective solution. In view of the huge diversity of commercial
vehicle versions, and the typical multi-stage production processes,
the one-size-fits-all approach to emissions limits that has been
used for cars and vans is not appropriate. Along with our competitors, we advocate a certification approach that takes into account
the complete vehicle – including different trailers and bodies. This
would make tackling CO2 emissions the joint responsibility of
­manufacturers, haulage companies and the state. The state would
be responsible for infrastructure development and the haulage
companies for intelligent management of the logistics processes.
Our own responsibilities, as manufacturers, would include investing in the development of improved emissions control systems and
new engines.

– 18.5% (– 12.5%)
– 23.2% (– 19.5%)
– 6.9% (– 4.6%)
– 26.1% (– 12.3%)
– 21.7% (– 13.8%)

Green Production
To meet the Group targets for 2018, each brand has developed its
own sustainable manufacturing program (see page 89).
­Volks­wa­gen’s program, which is known as “Think Blue. Factory.”,
was launched in 2012.
49
Worldwide, 27 production locations belonging to the V
­ olks­wa­gen
brand are taking part in “Think Blue. Factory.”. Between the program’s launch and the end of 2014, more than 2,700 out of a total of
more than 5,000 planned projects had already been successfully
implemented. Bearing in mind that “Think Blue. Factory.” can
only succeed with the support and engagement of the employees,
since 2013 specially trained environmental specialists have been
acting as “ambassadors” at all participating locations. Worldwide,
more than 1,000 ambassadors are now operating as front-line
contacts and multipliers for the employees at these locations. The
program has the full support of the Group Works Council, which
has already organized its own training on the topic for approximately 250 council members. The program has so far won 30
awards. In 2014 these accolades included a National Energy Globe
award from the Energy Globe Foundation (Austria) and the World
Environment Center’s Gold Medal for International Corporate
Achievement in Sustainable Development (USA ).

V V C A R B O N T R U S T S TA N DA R D S

Bentley is the first British carmaker to achieve certification to all
three “Carbon Trust” standards. This triple accolade reflected the
significant reductions achieved by Bentley in CO2 emissions, water
use and waste output at its headquarters in Crewe (United Kingdom).  
The Scania G 410 • Euro 6 semitrailer tractor is the greenest truck in its class.

100

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

Use of Resources in Production
The body accounts for approximately 40% of total vehicle mass,
which is why lightweight body design is an important research and
development focus at ­Volks­wa­gen. Lightweighting techniques include functional integration – which involves integrating several
different functions into one component – and use of low-density
materials. At the same time however, cost factors and a wide range
of environmental considerations must also be taken into account.
Consequently, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group brands always take an integrated approach to lightweight engineering, looking at the whole
life cycle of the product, from manufacturing through to recycling.
One example here is the question of whether to build bodies from
aluminum or steel. Aluminum reduces the weight of the vehicle,
which can significantly reduce CO2 emissions during the use
phase. However, production of aluminum is considerably more
­energy-intensive than production of steel, leading to higher CO2
emissions at the manufacturing stage. This initial environmental
disadvantage is offset only after many miles of driving. Aluminum
also has the disadvantage of being considerably more expensive
than steel, resulting in a significant increase in vehicle purchase
price. This is why small and mid-range car bodies still tend to be
made predominantly of steel.
That said, it is perfectly possible to build a lightweight vehicle
­u sing steel. Use of high-tensile and ultra-high-tensile steels
­a llows component gauges to be reduced, bringing a reduction in
total body weight – with no reduction in crash performance.
­A nother principle of efficient steel-based lightweight design is
the use of varying grades of steel – that is to say the right grades
of steel are used at the right points in the body to meet local stiffness requirements.

The bodywork accounts for approximately 40% of total vehicle mass.

Wherever possible, the Group’s brands use renewable raw materials. For example natural fibers like flax, cotton, wood, cellulose
and hemp are used in floor insulation, boot linings, door and side
panel trim and hood insulation. The Golf Sportsvan•, for example,
features an armrest containing kenaf and flax fibers, while paper
fibers are used in the cargo floor and roof reinforcement structure, and cotton fibers in the floor insulation.
51

V V M AT E R I A L CO M P O S I T I O N , V W G O L F
V V P L A S T I C A LT E R N AT I V E S

Operating fluids and
auxiliary materials 4.69%

In 2014 Audi demonstrated that vehicle springs, too, offer significant scope for weight savings. Audi and an Italian supplier have developed glass fiber-reinforced plastic (GFRP) springs that are 40%
lighter than comparable steel springs for vehicles in the upper midrange segment, weighing just 1.6 kg. A set of four GFRP springs
brings a total weight saving of 4.4 kg. And since this saving is partly
made up of a reduction in unsprung weight, it also results in improved suspension response and ride comfort. The GFRP springs are
also corrosion-proof and the manufacturing process consumes a lot
less energy than production of steel springs.

Electronics/electrics 0.17%
Composites, renewables and
other materials 4.41%
Process polymers 1.21%

Polymer materials 18.58%

Nonferrous metals, cast and
wrought alloys 2.22%
Special metals 0%

As well as improving the environmental footprint of vehicles in
which they are used, recycled and renewable materials can also
make good economic sense. New models of the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand
already have a high recycled and renewable content. Calculations
carried out for five models (Polo 5, Sharan NF, Golf 6, Golf 7, Passat
8) show that such content makes up approximately one-third of
their weight.
50

Light alloys, cast and
wrought alloys 9.74%
Steel and iron materials

101

58.99%

ENVIRONMENT

­ olks­w a­gen Chattanooga Solar Park is the largest solar power plant
V
­o perated by an automaker in the USA .

Late in 2013, SEAT brought the auto industry’s largest roof-mounted
­p hotovoltaic plant “ SEAT al Sol” on stream in Martorell (Spain).

Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions

Covering an area of 3,000 square meters, it has an annual capacity
of 363 MWh, and is capable of reducing CO2 emissions by up to
281 t. In 2014, a photovoltaic system also went into operation at
the ­Volks­wa­gen Zwickau location. It has an area of 900 square
­meters, can generate 90 MWh of electricity annually for use on the
final vehicle assembly lines, and can reduce annual CO2 emissions
by up to 80 t.
In November 2014, drilling began for a geothermal heat plant
close to the Audi factory in Győr (Hungary). When this plant goes
into operation – probably in late 2015 – it will supply at least
82,000 MWh of geothermal energy annually, meeting approximately 60% of the plant’s total heat requirements, and reducing
Audi’s CO2 emissions by a further 23,000 t.
With the expansion of its Leipzig location, Porsche has incorporated features that will reduce CO 2 emissions by 11,637 t. annually compared with a conventional design. The biggest savings
will come from the use of waste heat from the nearby woodchip-fired heating plant, which will provide almost 80% carbon-neutral heating at the location and result in cost savings of
approximately €360,000 per annum. A further important contributor is a rooftop photovoltaic plant installed on the body shop.
In 2014, when operating well below full capacity, this system
­delivered CO 2 savings of 115 t. In the future, under optimal solar
conditions, it will offer Porsche potential annual savings of at
least 1,000 t of CO 2 . MAN, meanwhile, reduced CO 2 emissions
at its production locations by approximately 105,400 t in 2014,
bringing the total improvement over 2008 levels to 19% – a five
percentage point improvement over 2013. A wide range of measures were responsible for this result, including more efficient
production technologies, optimized heating and ventilation systems and use of renewable energy, for example with the installation of a photovoltaic system at the Pinetown location in South
Africa.

In the reporting period, specific energy consumption per vehicle
produced showed a continuous fall. As production volumes increased, however, total energy consumption rose, although less
rapidly than in the previous year (see page 126). We now meet
­approximately one-third of our global electricity requirements
from renewables. Between 2012 and 2020, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group
will invest some €600 million in continued expansion of renewable energies such as wind, hydroelectric power, solar power and
biomass. Investments in 2014 reached approximately €23 million.
On top of this, we have so far invested some €15 million in fuel conversion measures at our CHP plant in Braunschweig and some €65
million in the combined gas and steam plant in Kassel. By 2014,
more than 25 solar photovoltaic systems were up and running at
our locations, with a total generating capacity of approximately 60
MW. This is equivalent to the electricity consumption of approximately 20,000 private households. A number of brands have also
set their own ambitious targets. Lamborghini for example is looking to make its production processes carbon-neutral by 2015. The
17,000 square-meter photovoltaic system on the roof of the central
production shop at the Sant’Agata location is an important milestone en route to this goal.

VV We now meet approximately one-third
of our global electricity requirements
from renewables.
Large photovoltaic systems have also been installed at the Emden
(Germany), Crewe (United Kingdom), Martorell (Spain) and Chattanooga (USA ) locations – and further installations are in the pipeline across the Group. In early 2014, a second photovoltaic system
went into operation at the V
­ olks­wa­gen Braunschweig location.
102

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

In 2014, more than 1,500 process-optimization measures in the
energy and environment sectors were filed across the Group on the
intranet-based ­Volks­wa­gen Group IT tool “Massnahmen@web”.
These led to CO2 savings of 195,000 t, annual energy savings of
505 GWh, and cost savings of over €30 million.

ing the last RFQ process for PCs, in early 2014, common Groupwide specifications were drawn up for energy-efficient PC workstation hardware. For example, it was decided to exclusively use
energy-efficient TF T monitors with LED backlighting. Only energy-efficient desktop PCs and laptops are now eligible for the
Group’s central I T purchasing basket. All Group companies
across the globe can order this hardware via a special B2B portal.
By the end of 2014, 150 companies in 35 countries were already
using the central IT purchasing basket. Across the Group, savings
in electricity consumption in 2014 from the introduction of new
energy-efficient, eco-friendly equipment purchased from the
­central IT basket amounted to approximately 47,000 megawatt-hours (MWh). The savings work out at a reduction in annual
electricity consumption per individual PC workstation from 206 to
around 60 kilowatt-hours (kWh). In 2014 SE AT, a participant in
the EuroEnergest project, an energy efficiency project supported
by the European Commission, demonstrated how intelligent IT
­systems optimize energy consumption, maximize use of renewable energy and deliver 10% energy savings.

V V E M P L OY E E S S U G G E S T WAY S TO S AV E

We’re all familiar with the topic from our homes – a substantial proportion of the energy we consume is accounted for by equipment
that isn’t being used and is merely in standby mode. The solution
here is to rigorously switch off what is not in use. At the factory,
however, the complex interdependency of various items of equipment means that switching off can be more complicated than it
might seem at first glance. To indicate clearly which items of equipment can be shut down when, employees at the Kassel and Emden
locations came up with the idea of using energy efficiency labels
like the ones on domestic appliances and invented their own system
along these lines. Now, employees on the shop floor can see at a
glance what they can save by switching off their machines. If there
are operational reasons for not switching off, the label shows a
bright red “NO ” and describes which items must not be shut down
under any circumstances. In just one department of the Kassel location, systematically switching off all the equipment during production-free periods cut CO2 emissions by 120 t. The potential offered
by reducing the baseload was already brought to the attention of
management and employees back in 2011 by annual competitions
between the locations and production sectors at the ­Volks­wa­gen
and ­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicle brands. At the same time a
process standard was drawn up along with a manual providing recommendations and measures, with the result that all production
locations at these brands regularly conduct baseload monitoring
exercises and report on their findings.

VV EM I SSI O N S TR A D I N G

The procedure for the allocation of CO2 emissions certificates under
the European Union’s Emissions Trading System changed fundamentally in 2013, at the start of the third trading period (2013 – 2020). For
electricity companies, full auctioning has been introduced. For the
manufacturing industry and certain types of power plant (e.g. CHP
plants), some certificates are still allocated free of charge. However,
the number of free certificates will fall steadily throughout the trading period. Any certificates required on top of the free allocation will
have to be either purchased at auction or covered by credits for emissions reduction projects under the Joint Implementation scheme and
Clean Development Mechanism. 30 ­Volks­wa­gen Group locations are
included in the European Emissions Trading System. For 2014, the
Group received a free allocation of 1,090,262 emissions certificates
(169,925 less than the previous year). As well as the European Union,
various other countries in which ­Volks­wa­gen Group production locations are based are planning to introduce emissions trading. China for
example has already launched seven pilot emissions trading schemes,
in which the ­Volks­wa­gen Group is not involved at the present time.
Going forward, the Chinese government plans to expand these pilot
projects into a national emissions trading system.

The participation of the Group brands in joint research projects
with external partners is a further important source of inspiration and new ideas for energy savings. One example is ­Volks­wa­gen
and Audi’s participation in the German research alliance “Innovation Alliance Green Carbody Technologies” (InnoCaT). In a
­recent InnoCaT research project, Siemens, V
­ olks­wa­gen and a
Fraunhofer Institute studied the movement sequences of production robots and developed a simulation model to work out the most
energy-efficient trajectories. Smoother trajectories result in a significant reduction in energy consumption, with tests showing
that this approach can cut energy consumption by almost onehalf. The goal is to develop software that can be used to reprogram existing robots for more energy-efficient operation, without making changes to the production process.

V V A WA R D S F O R S U S TA I N A B L E B U I L D I N G S

With the internally awarded “Blue Building” certification we aim to
promote the construction of energy-efficient and sustainable buildings within the ­Volks­wa­gen Group. These buildings must significantly
surpass the requirements of energy efficiency legislation. Under the
scheme, buildings that score highly on a number of supplementary criteria – employee-friendly design, cost-efficient operation and environ-

Green IT
Reducing the electricity consumption of IT components has been a
strategic objective of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group for many years. Dur103

ENVIRONMENT

­Volks­wa­gen location in Pamplona (Spain): Despite a sharp increase in production, it was able to cut its absolute water consumption by half between 2001 and 2014.

In November 2014, the ­Volks­wa­gen engine factory in Chemnitz received an external award for sustainable building design – the Gold
Certificate of the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB). The
jury was particularly impressed by the way that expansion at the location had been integrated in a balanced way with the surrounding environment, and by the use of resource-efficient production equipment.

duction process. Of this, most is accounted for by upstream supply
chain operations. Nevertheless, a review in 2014 underlined the
importance for the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group of cutting water consumption. This is because 58% of our entire freshwater consumption –
approximately 24 million cubic meters – is attributable to locations situated in regions where groundwater resources are at risk
– above all Mexico, Spain, South Africa, India and China.
In our environmental management strategy we always take into
account the fact that water resource availability varies greatly
from region to region, and that solutions must be adapted accordingly. The same philosophy also underlies the water management
strategy adopted by the Corporate Environment and Energy Steering Group in 2014, where four action areas were defined:

Water Consumption

>> Safe and reliable water supply and sewerage. We aim to protect groundwater reserves against pollution, and to avoid production downtimes caused by water shortages.

mentally friendly planning and construction – win the additional
designation “Plus”. At the present time, a variety of commercial and
residential buildings currently under construction are being optimized
in line with the “Blue Building” standards. The most outstanding
­example is a new office complex that will surpass statutory energy efficiency requirements by more than 35%.

Despite the increase in the number of production locations within
the Group, water consumption per vehicle manufactured was reduced in 2014 (see page 131). We are well aware that in many parts
of the world water is a very valuable resource, and that managing
this resource is an increasingly challenging task. That is why we
adopted water as our focus topic for 2014. With our pioneering
­water footprint analysis in 2013, calculated on the basis of extensive LCA data, we identified those processes that consume most
water over the life cycle of a representative selection of ­Volks­wa­gen
brand models. The water footprint calculation showed that as far
as water is concerned, the use phase plays only a minor role. A
large proportion of water consumption is attributable to the pro-

>> Efficient water use throughout the life cycle. By using water as
economically and efficiently as possible during the production
process, and by recycling as much water as possible, we aim to
reduce total water consumption to the great possible extent.
>> Social and environmental initiatives. Particularly through
our biodiversity projects, we help to protect water resources and
to promote public environmental awareness.
>> Transparency. We communicate our goals and activities to the
public. In 2013 ­Volks­wa­gen became the world’s first automaker
104

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

Waste Output

to commit to the United Nations CEO Water Mandate. Also, since
2011, we have been providing extensive disclosure of our water
management practices and progress, by completing the very
­detailed CDP water management questionnaire.

Owing to the rise in production output in the reporting period, the
volumes of hazardous and non-hazardous waste also increased.
The proportions of waste for disposal in these volumes were reduced in 2014, while the recycling ratio increased (see page 130).
A waste strategy in force across the Group helps all locations to reduce and avoid waste. Optimal systems are in place for the recycling of production waste, packaging materials and waste from
workshops and the Technical Development department. For recyclable production waste that can be sold on the market, a system
has been rolled out across the Group that helps to improve the efficiency of the entire process. The focus is not only on revenue generation but also on optimized preparation of the waste for efficient
transportation.
52
In 2014, Scania adopted waste as a focus topic. The target is improved recycling ratios and reduced consumption of materials.
There are also plans to cooperate more closely with waste disposal
contractors. Bentley already achieved its “zero to landfill” target in
2013, having cut waste per vehicle by 85% between 2000 and
2013. Recycling facilities are available across the factory.
Waste reduction is an important focus at our Chinese locations
too. In April 2014, we launched a waste project at the Anting and
Foshan locations, together with our joint venture partners. In cooperation with employees and our partners, we are developing
systems that will improve recycling ratios through improved sorting, storage and handling of waste at the factory itself, and
through optimized recycling technologies at the waste disposal
companies. The aim is to increase the recycling ratio to 80%.

These four priorities were reflected in the water conservation
measures that we pursued during the reporting period. In 2012,
the paintshop at V
­ olks­wa­gen’s Chengdu location (China) became
the first paintshop in Asia to use “EcoDry Scrubber” technology,
which reduces water consumption on the painting line by up to
23% compared with solvent-based processes. And at the Foshan
location, also in China, we are aiming to go one step further and
achieve 100% wastewater recycling by 2015. A wide range of
­treatment and recycling measures at the Bentley location in
Crewe (United Kingdom) resulted in a 57% reduction in water
use per­
vehicle manufactured between 2010 and 2014. The
­Volks­wa­gen location in Pamplona (Spain) has been very successful over the years. Despite a sharp increase in production, it was
able to cut its absolute water consumption by half between 2001
and 2014. At the Curitiba location in Brazil, one simple measure
introduced in 2014 has had a big effect on water use: the water
used during regular testing of the firefighting system is now
drained off into a rainwater retention basin and recycled as cooling water. In this way, annual freshwater consumption has been
reduced by approximately 18,000 m3.

VV We always take the fact into account
that water resource availability varies
greatly from region to region.

Green Logistics
For our incoming deliveries of raw materials and supplies, for
inter-location shipments and for shipments of vehicles leaving
our locations, we utilize all modes of transport. The aim is to
make logistics processes as environmentally compatible and
efficient as possible and to shift an increasing share of total
transportation volumes to rail and sea. Since 2012 a special
Corporate Steering Group has been responsible for coordinating this “Green Logistics” approach. In 2014 this Steering
Group defined work packages for specific measures, accounting practices, communication, qualification and internal target achievement methods. The German Nature and Biodiversity
Conservation Union ( NABU ) played an active advisory role during this period.
In 2014, the ­Volks­wa­gen Wolfsburg location became the first to
define binding environmental performance objectives for its Plant
Logistics, requiring CO2 emissions from internal truck and rail
freight movements to be reduced by one-quarter. A few statistics
will help to illustrate the scale of logistics operations at this location. Every day, 3,400 new vehicles leave the location on 210 double-decker rail wagons and 140 road transporters, while inbound
shipments of raw materials, parts and assemblies are received
from around 2,600 suppliers, transported on around 100 rail
wagons and some 910 trucks.

Solvent Emissions
During the reporting period, the increase in vehicle output and
the related rise in the volume of painting work led to a slight increase in absolute solvent emissions ( VOC ) (see page 129). Reducing VOC emissions from manufacturing is therefore a key focus for
2015 in V
­ olks­wa­gen’s “Think Blue. Factory.” sustainable manufacturing program. To identify further scope for savings, a pilot
workshop was held in Hanover in mid-October 2014 which
brought together experts from the central environment functions,
from “Think Blue. Factory.” and from the planning sectors. Also
present were paintshop, environmental protection, factory planning, brand planning and process engineering specialists. Like
for the environmental indicators “waste for disposal” and “water
consumption”, a package of tools and suggested measures was
drawn up, which was then passed on to all locations for implementation.
A further focus is on reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions. It should be noted that the number of employees capable of
influencing this indicator, through their ideas and their personal
behavior, is far greater than for VOC emissions.

105

ENVIRONMENT

Since 2014, all finished engines transported from Chemnitz to
Emden have now gone by rail, reducing CO2 emissions by 165 t annually. As far as vehicle transportation is concerned, switching
from road to rail reduced annual CO2 emissions from European
mainline operations by a further 1,812 t in 2014. At the same time
we are making increased use of low-CO2 rail wagons that also meet
the strictest standards on noise emissions. For example
­Volks­wa­gen Group Logistics has hired 300 sliding wall wagons
from Touax Rail Ltd, built by the Polish manufacturer Greenbrier.
These wagons, which are equipped with “whispering brakes” that
reduce noise by more than 75%, are expected to be in use on rail
routes between European locations of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group by
February 2015. This will result in a further shift in transport from
road to rail and a further reduction in CO2 emissions.

VV CL E A N SH I PPI N G I N D E X

In October 2013, the ­Volks­wa­gen Group became the first German
automaker to join the Clean Shipping Network. Since May 2014
­Volks­wa­gen Group Logistics has held a seat on the board of this association of vessel owners and users. The association’s Clean Shipping Index (CSI ) is used by ­Volks­wa­gen Group Logistics as a tool for
evaluating the environmental impacts of its ocean shipping. The index transparently informs the members of the Clean Shipping Network about the emissions of individual ships and individual routes,
and allows them to take environmental criteria into consideration
when selecting vessels. As well as the handling of chemicals and
waste disposal, such criteria also include carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide (NO X ) and sulfur oxide (SO X ) emissions.  

VV By making use of environmentally
friendly and cost-efficient modes
of transport, the logistics sector is ­
making an important contribution
to the c­ orporate objectives of the
­­Volks­wa­gen Group.

Biodiversity
Conservation of biological diversity is one of the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s
stated aims. In 2007 ­Volks­wa­gen formulated a mission statement in
which it committed to preserving biodiversity “at all of its locations”.
As a member of the “Biodiversity in Good Company” initiative, we
are also committed to integrating biodiversity protection step by step
into our management processes. By 2014, for example, ­Volks­wa­gen
had commissioned 32 reports that analyzed and evaluated emissions risks to water, soil and biodiversity at its European production
locations. We also give preference to brownfield sites when planning
construction projects, in order to minimize land sealing.
­Volks­wa­gen also promotes the development of practical biodiversity management tools, by participating in expert forums and scientific studies. These include the joint working group on management indicators of “Biodiversity in Good Company” and econsense,
and a research project studying the impact of product systems on
biodiversity led by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics, a
project in which the German Federal Ministry for the Environment is participating.
53
In 2014 we again used the “Biodiversity in Good Company” initiative as a learning and dialogue platform – for the first time also
open to our suppliers – and as a tool for bringing together stakeholders from politics, public bodies, associations and universities
at both national and international level. NA BU continued to serve
as an adviser and project partner.
Our voluntary initiatives to protect biodiversity or safeguard ecosystem services focused on the following areas: research funding;
biotope networking; protection of nature and biodiversity; and
­a fforestation and forest conversion. These initiatives were in many
cases combined with environmental education measures. Lighthouse projects during the reporting period comprised:

Every year, Porsche too sets green logistics targets. These targets
are aimed at reducing packaging volumes, promoting the use of
reusable containers and the purchasing of efficient plant and
equipment, reducing transport operations and promoting the use
of environmentally friendly modes of transport. On the inbound
logistics side, haulage contractors must comply with green logistics requirements on aspects such as use of low-pollutant vehicles,
driver training and vehicle maintenance intervals. Since 2014,
100% of haulage trucks operated by freight forwarders serving
Porsche have complied with Euro 5 or higher emissions standards. All logistics processes at Porsche are also certified to DIN
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Maritime shipping is a further important cornerstone of Porsche’s logistics operations. By adding a
third port to its logistics network in China, the company has reduced its CO2 emissions in this country by 45%. Porsche has also
expanded its transport network in the United Kingdom, where a
second port has reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 10%.
As the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group’s operations become increasingly internationalized, the importance of sea and inland waterway transport
continues to grow. By making use of such environmentally friendly
and cost-efficient modes of transport, the logistics sector is making
an important contribution to the corporate objectives of the
­Volks­wa­gen Group. A further important landmark in 2014 was the
opening of the Fallersleben container terminal operated by GVZ
­Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, which has extended the capabilities of the Wolfsburg Multimodal Logistics Center. In its first year of
operation, this terminal handled approximately 152,751 m³ of
goods for ­Volks­wa­gen AG, which is one of GVZ Wolfsburg’s main customers.

>> The “Think Blue. Nature.” project, in which V
­ olks­wa­gen’s initial
investment will be €260,000. As well as sponsoring for the
­ ESMO (= Corridor Ecologico Sierra Madre Oriental, 4 million
C
hectares) biodiversity corridor, which provides a habitat for

106

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

The environmental project drawn up by ­Volks­w a­gen Financial Services and
NABU combines promoting climate-friendly vehicle fleet management with
restoring a number of German wetland areas.

­Volks­w a­gen de México’s long-running initiative “Por amor al planeta” is the
country’s largest private research funding program.

around 650 endangered species, this project also comprises the
“Eco Chavos” initiative, which was launched in April 2014 and is
a joint project between V
­ olks­wa­gen de México, the Mexican
government and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale
­
Zusammenarbeit. Under this project, 300 young people will act
as environmental ambassadors to inspire a further 10,000
young people to take part in nature conservation activities in one
of the seven conservation areas in the CESMO corridor.
54
>> ­Volks­wa­gen de México’s long-running initiative “Por amor al
planeta” (for love of the planet), the country’s largest private
­research funding program.
>> Jointly with NA BU , ­Volks­wa­gen is also supporting the “Welcome
Wolf” information campaign and the project to renaturalize the
Lower Havel River in Germany, home to around 1,000 endangered species.
>> A project jointly developed by V
­ olks­wa­gen Financial Services
and NA BU to promote climate-friendly vehicle fleet management and simultaneously restore a number of German wetland
areas (carbon sinks). 13 wetlands are now included in the
scheme, which in September 2014 was named an official project
of the U N Decade on Biodiversity.
>> The “Natural Classroom” at the Environment Center in Breiten­
güßbach, which has been named an official project of the
U N Decade on Biodiversity and is funded by the AU DI Environment Foundation. The Foundation will also be providing
€250,000 of funding over a five-year period for the Steigerwald
Sustainability Center.

S A L ES , U S E A N D R EC YCL I N G
Our philosophy of forward-thinking, environmentally minded
mobility spans every stage in the value chain, but the use phase is
pivotal, not just in terms of its impacts; it is also critical to success,
because customers’ needs are evolving. Fuel-efficient vehicles
are just one, albeit vital, component of progressive mobility that
produces less CO2 . Which is why we are committed to offering our
customers the fullest possible range of mobility services. And the
Group’s Environmental Strategy also extends to the final stage of
the vehicle’s life cycle: recycling.

Sales Initiatives
The V
­ olks­wa­gen brand is gradually anchoring its “Think Blue.”
strategy in other business areas to boost environmental sustainability: in early 2014, the brand began a campaign to get the 1,200
­Volks­wa­gen dealerships in Germany more closely involved in its
environmental management system. The aim is to cut CO2 emissions from our dealer network by 25% by 2020 – which will also
help to cut operating costs. By the end of 2015, we want more than
60% of car dealerships to have benefited from our advisory service. Our eco-efficiency service is available to all partner companies. In a “pre-check”, the ­Volks­wa­gen consultants collate data on
the dealers’ energy consumption, building shell and technology,
and the use of regenerative energies. Each dealer can then take
suitable action based on the results. Standout eco-friendly dealerships are awarded the “Future Climate inspired by Think Blue.”
certificate. ­Volks­wa­gen is advised on this project by the German
Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union ( NA BU ). From 2015,
we will be extending this initiative to our 11,500 dealers outside
of Germany: the “Think Blue. Dealer.” initiative wants up to 60%
of dealers worldwide to have received energy efficiency advice by
2018. Approved dealers may use the “Certified Think Blue. Dealer” logo.
Porsche has also launched a sustainability initiative to support
dealers, aimed at improving energy efficiency among existing

In 2014, the Chattanooga location of V
­ olks­w a­gen Group of
America was presented with the Environmental Protection
Agency‘s new “Rain Catcher Award”. The award was presented
for the location’s excellent green infrastructure measures and
protection of water resources. In 2014 the Chattanooga location
also received the Chattanooga Times Free Press “Best Green
Business Award”.

107

ENVIRONMENT

­ orsche Centers and ensuring that new centers are organized as
P
efficiently as possible. Porsche provides its international network
with a comprehensive planning manual and software tool which
addresses many aspects of environmental sustainability, from water saving, to construction, building services and renewable energies, to information on the handling of hazardous goods.

V V T H E C H A L L E N G E O F D I G I T I Z AT I O N

Growing digitization and new mobility concepts pose fresh challenges for vehicle sales. In November 2014, this prompted the
­Volks­wa­gen brand to join with the Institut für Automobilwirtschaft (IFA ) at Nürtingen-Geislingen University (HfWU) to
­create the “Future Retail Lab”. The lab will develop new sales strategies and concepts for the industry, and translate them into practice at ­Volks­wa­gen.

Supplementary Mobility Card
At present, electric vehicles are still limited by their range. In
­response, V
­ olks­wa­gen has joined forces with Euromobil to devise
the “Supplementary Mobility Card”. Euromobil is the car hire arm
of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group sales and service partners, and boasts
the largest network in Germany, with over 2,400 rental locations.
Customers can rent vehicles from the ­Volks­wa­gen, Audi, SE AT and
ŠKODA brands.
Within the first three years of purchasing one of our electric cars,
the Supplementary Mobility Card allows customers to borrow a
conventional-powertrain vehicle free of charge from any of the
participating Euromobil outlets in Germany for up to a maximum
of 30 days a year, including a set free kilometer allowance.

Marketing Initiatives
Alongside the development of ever more fuel-efficient new models,
the Group boasts a wide range of other offerings for eco-friendly
mobility. These include:
>> Spotlighting particularly efficient vehicles and low-carbon technologies in our product communications by awarding them efficiency badges (pages 95 – 98), and reporting on environmental
progress in new models through Life Cycle Assessments and
­Environmental Commendations (see pages 94 – 95).
>> Information and campaigns inspiring drivers to adopt fuel-efficient, eco-friendly driving habits.
>> e-mobility service offerings such as green electricity tariffs and a
rapid-charging infrastructure such as the “wallbox”.

­Volks­wa­gen Mobility Card
As part of the German Government’s “Electromobility Showcase”
program, the first pilot phase of the “­Volks­wa­gen Mobility Card”
was launched in June 2014 in Hanover, with 50 participants. The
card provides customers with an integrated range of services designed to make electromobility more user-friendly and efficient.
For example, it can be used to reserve selected charging stations
and parking spaces before setting out on a journey. Accounts are
settled via the ­Volks­wa­gen app, which also offers route planning
with up-to-date traffic and parking information, so that customers can select the best mode of transport to their destination. The
trial phase will run until the end of 2015; depending on the results, the ­Volks­wa­gen Mobility Card will then be rolled out to other
regions.

The “electrified! – electric mobility weeks by ­Volks­wa­gen”, held
in March 2014 at the former Tempelhof airport in Berlin, were
attended by some 10,000 visitors keen to find out more about electric ­mobility at ­Volks­wa­gen. Our alternative-powertrain vehicles
were taken for a total of 6,000 test drives. From July to October,
­Volks­wa­gen then took its electric models on tour to nine German
cities on the “electrified! tour 2014”.

VV The use phase is decisive for the success
of future-oriented and environmentally
minded mobility.
Driving electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids has become far more
convenient in Germany since the introduction of the “Charge&Fuel
Card” from ­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services in January 2015. It
­a llows V
­ olks­wa­gen and Audi customers to fill up with electricity and
conventional fuel on the same card. The Charge&Fuel Card provides access to more than 1,200 public charging stations around
the country run by RWE , EnBW and Ladenetz. Previously, each
charging operation had been billed locally and at different rates by
individual suppliers. The card can also be used to fill up with regular fuel at around 10,000 filling stations. In the past, this would
have meant customers having to carry up to 40 different cards,
codes or other forms of authentication with them. The new service
from ­Volks­wa­gen consolidates all this onto a single card or app.
Very low fuel consumption: the ŠKODA Octavia Greenline•.

108

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

V V S A M P L E C A L CU L AT I O N O F A D D I T I O N A L S AV I N G S P O T E N T I A L R E S U LT I N G F R O M E CO D R I V E R T R A I N I N G

Consumption

Calculation

Total

Without ECO driver training

4.6 l/100 km

€1.40/l diesel x 4.6 l/100 km x
90,000 km x 100 vehicles

€579,600

With ECO driver training  
(average fuel savings 10%)

4.1 l/100 km

€1.40/l diesel x 4.1 l/100 km x
90,000 km x 100 vehicles

€516,600

Total savings

€63,000
Typical fleet of 100 vehicles (Passat Estate 2.0 l TDI BlueMotion Technology*), leasing term 36 months, 30,000 km/year.
*Combined CO2 emissions: 120 g/km; fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban: 5.6; extra-urban: 4.0; combined: 4.6.

Eco-Friendly Driving

natural gas network to compensate. The green gas is produced at
Audi’s own power-to-gas plant in Werlte, which uses waste CO2 as a
raw material in production (see page 92).

Regardless of model or brand, along with the development of ever
more efficient vehicles, eco-friendly driving habits are the decisive way to cut fuel consumption and emissions of CO2 , noise and
airborne pollutants. We support our customers in this respect with
a range of courses:

V V S AV E F U E L W I T H “ T H I N K B L U E . T R A I N E R .”

>> In Germany, ­Volks­wa­gen and NA BU offer free fuel economy
training in the project “Change over – just save fuel”. Courses
are held in collaboration with local NA BU groups, ­Volks­wa­gen
dealers and a team of professional trainers from ­Volks­wa­gen
Driving Experience.
>> Customers can also book “Think Blue. Eco-Training” courses
directly with ­Volks­wa­gen in Germany, Hong Kong and Singapore.
>> In collaboration with Deutsche Verkehrswacht and caremotion,
­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services offer “ECO driving courses” for
drivers of fleet vehicles.

“Think Blue. Trainer.” is a driver assistance program offering vital information on current fuel consumption during the journey, to encourage more eco-friendly driving habits. Essentially, the display
system operates on the principle “blue = good”, “gray = bad”, and
uses the Blue Score assessment system: if the driver is driving economically, the circle will fill with blue bars, and if they are not, the
majority of bars will be grey. A Blue Score of 100 represents optimal
driving performance. The Trainer also provides the driver with valuable live feedback on gear shifts, speed and foresight, as well as
coasting and overrun fuel cut-off. The “Think Blue. Trainer.” already
features in the conventional-powertrain e-up!• and up!• models, as
well as in the Polo• and Passat•, and will be gradually rolled out to
other models as well. The range of functions offered by the “Think
Blue. Trainer.” can be further extended with the “­Volks­wa­gen CarNet Think Blue. Trainer.” app, which communicates with the vehicle
and can be operated via the infotainment system. The app contains
training challenges that provide additional motivation. All trips are
automatically stored, and can later be used for cross-comparison.

In 2014, the eco-driving courses conducted by V
­ olks­wa­gen Driving Experience attracted 978 participants. These courses currently focus on Germany and the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand, but there are
plans to roll them out across the Group over the next few years.
Green Electricity. Electric vehicles powered by green electricity
produce zero emissions. The ­
Volks­
wa­
gen, Audi and Porsche
brands have come up with suitable tariffs for their customers.
e-up!• drivers can charge their vehicles with “BluePower” carbon-neutral electricity, generated by hydropower plants in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. BluePower is also available for the
Porsche hybrid vehicles. And following the launch of the A3 e-tron•

Eco-Friendly Fleet Management
Commercial fleets are a powerful lever for making road traffic
more environmentally compatible. More than 60% of all newly
registered cars are fleet vehicles, and most of them clock up very
high mileage. What is more, they are often leased, and therefore
replaced every few years. V
­ olks­wa­gen Financial Services and NA BU
have come up with an environmental program which allows the
fleet manager to protect the environment and cut costs at the same
time. Since the program was launched, V
­ olks­wa­gen Leasing GmbH
has seen the number of particularly fuel-efficient vehicles in its
portfolio increase. As a result, over the past six years the average
CO2 emissions of newly registered fleet vehicles for key-account

in 2014, customers can now also purchase “Audi energy”, likewise
generated by hydroelectric power stations in Germany, Austria
and Switzerland, as documented by the “ok power” logo.
Green Gas. Audi A3 Sportback g-tron• drivers have been virtually
carbon-neutral since March 2014, thanks to the “Audi e-gas fuel
card”. Audi records the quantities of gas each customer purchases
with the card, and ensures that exactly the same quantity of synthetically produced, renewable Audi e-gas is fed into the German
109

ENVIRONMENT

customers have dropped by 17.7%. Fleet vehicles are subject to ever
more stringent requirements, including a maximum emissions
limit of just 110 g CO2 /km in 2014 and an efficiency label of A or
A+.
“The Green Fleet” award has been presented annually by
­Volks­wa­gen Leasing and NA BU since 2010, and recognizes ecologically responsible fleet managers. In 2014, for the first time
ever, more than 100 key accounts competed for the award, setting a new record and demonstrating that eco-friendly fleet
management is no longer a peripheral issue but at the very heart
of fleet business. Awards were presented to the companies with
the highest proportion of eco-friendly ­Volks­wa­gen Group vehicles in three different fleet size categories.

vehicles. The companies are planning to jointly take the business
model forward, and in a subsequent step roll out activities in other
countries, primarily in Europe. At the same time, V
­ olks­wa­gen New
Mobility Services Investment Company China ( V W NMS ), a 100%
subsidiary of ­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services AG , has been piloting
the VRent corporate carsharing model for companies and their
employees since 2014. This is a brand new concept for China,
­offering customers uncomplicated, flexible and direct access to a
comprehensive fleet of vehicles in various categories. A tariff model based solely on usage, with monthly invoicing, ensures complete
transparency and cost control.
As part of the “Electromobility Showcase” program, in November
2014 V
­ olks­wa­gen began providing selected universities in Lower
Saxony with 50 e-up!• cars at attractive rates for carsharing. The
aim is to gauge customers’ expectations of e-carsharing and establish what challenges this places on the infrastructure, the vehicle
components or the business model, for example.

Solutions for Urban Mobility of the Future
The challenges of urban mobility, and the possible solutions to
this problem, have long been the subject of much debate. Expanding urban populations, megacities, lack of parking spaces,
traffic jams, overloading of public transport, digitization and
networking are the buzzwords. Systematically analyzing these
challenges, and deriving possible solutions, is an ongoing task
for mobility research. 2013 saw publication of the “Urban Mobility 2030” film, the first ever comprehensive visualization of this
topic.
55
In fiscal 2014, we held intensive discussions with the general public, for example at the ­Volks­wa­gen eMobility week in Berlin, early
in the year, as well as at a string of conferences. The V
­ olks­wa­gen
Group has also stepped up its intelligent mobility activities, including the ­Volks­w a­gen CarNet with online traffic information
in ­selected car models, the pilot project “Think Blue. Share a
­Volks­wa­gen.”, and a mobility card in the context of the “Lower
Saxony Electromobility Showcase”, plus a number of innovative
driver assistance systems for our production vehicles, and
demonstrations of automated and piloted driving. Research projects such as the Intersection Pilot for interaction between the
­vehicle and the traffic lights on the one hand, and location-specific mobility and traffic management concepts such as the Traffic
Task Force in Wolfsburg on the other, round out our wide range of
ideas on how to make future mobility more intelligent.
56

V V “ I N T E R S E C T I O N P I L O T ” R E S E A R C H P R O J E C T

The joint German research initiative UR :BAN (Urban Space: User-­
Friendly Assistance Systems and Network Management), scheduled
to run until 2016, is designed to provide passenger car and commercial vehicle drivers with anticipatory, intelligent, individual assistance in urban traffic situations. As part of the “Smart Intersection”
sub-project, ­Volks­wa­gen is developing the Intersection Pilot, the
first system to supply drivers with information about the next intersection and support optimal driving maneuvers, helping to keep
traffic flowing more smoothly and safely, and achieve a further cut
in fuel consumption.

Reducing Traffic Noise
How best to provide individual mobility while at the same time reducing noise pollution is a task for all stakeholders, and the
­Volks­wa­gen Group is committed to playing its part. The ­Volks­wa­gen
brand is working intensively to further reduce noise emissions
from its vehicles. At the ­Volks­wa­gen Acoustics Center in Wolfsburg, noise minimization efforts focus on continuous optimization of all aspects of the powertrain, the vehicle aerodynamics and
tire/road noise. Noise emissions are a key factor in tire selection
for every new vehicle across the Group. But the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group
also goes one step further: in collaboration with Hamburger
Lärmkontor GmbH (Germany), we have developed a noise tool to
evaluate the effectiveness of noise abatement measures. Our noise
research examines how individuals are impacted by noise, and we
engage in ongoing dialogue with the affected community. This includes collaborating with local authorities and participating in
the public debate, for example at the “DV WG Traffic Noise Forum”
in 2014.

Carsharing
“Quicar” is the name of the ­Volks­wa­gen carsharing project, operated by ­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services: Over 200 Golf BlueMotion
1.6 TDI• cars from the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand are available to rent at
approximately 50 stations in and around Hanover. Some 12,000
customers have already registered with the Quicar scheme, which
offers widespread availability of these efficient vehicles, an inexpensive and flexible system of charges and a simple operating concept. In 2013, ­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services, together with its
partner Pon Holdings B.V., also acquired a stake in Collect Car
B.V., better known as “Greenwheels”. “Greenwheels” is the leading carsharing operator in the Netherlands, with around 2,000

110

M ANAGEMENT APPROACH

GROUP-WIDE PROGR A MS

P R O D U C T P L A N N I N G A N D D E V E L O PM E N T

PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS

S A L E S , U S E A N D R E C YC L I N G

The Intersection Pilot supplies drivers with information about the next
­intersection, helping to keep traffic flowing more smoothly and safely.

V V S U S TA I N A B L E M O B I L I T Y 2 . 0

As a long-standing member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD ), we collaborate with other member
companies in all industries on the “Sustainable Mobility 2.0” project
to develop solutions for sustainable future urban mobility. Potential
solutions must be both pragmatic and based on sound technical research. The project entered its second year in 2014, kicking off a debate about the findings from all six model cities around the globe.

The future recycling of electric vehicle batteries containing lithium is today taken into account at the vehicle development stage. To
this end, the ­Volks­wa­gen brand has set up take-back systems for
batteries and participated both in the joint project LithoRec I,
completed in 2011, and the follow-on project LithoRec II , which is
still ongoing. The recycling of lithium ion batteries is currently
being tested. Since December 2013 we have also been involved in
the research and development project ElmoReL2020 for the recycling of power electronics from electric vehicles. By 2016, the
­project partners are aiming to draw up recycling procedures for
the key power electronics components.
In the field of commercial vehicles and power engineering, upstream of recycling, we are focusing on extending the life span of
vehicles and plant by replacing components and upgrading efficiency. M A N Truck & Bus professionally remanufactures used
parts for use in vehicle repairs under the “M A N Originalteile®
ecoline” brand. This helps to conserve resources, saves energy,
and cuts costs by an average of 30%. Web-based training courses
for vehicle workshops can be booked via the M A N Academy. Customers in most parts of Europe also have access to an extensive
portfolio of replacement and spare parts. M A N PrimeServ, the
service brand of M A N Diesel & Turbo, has continuously refined its
range of retrofits and upgrades to meet ever more stringent emissions and environmental compatibility requirements. Retrofit
solutions are amalgamated under the name PrimeServ-Green,
and help to boost efficiency and reduce emissions in diesel engines, marine propulsion systems, compressors and turbines.
This service is offered by M A N Diesel & Turbo at 116 PrimeServ
locations around the world.

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N O R I G I N A L PA R T S C E N T E R

After-Sales and Recycling
The processes introduced by the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group ensure that
our vehicles are at least 85% recyclable, and 95% recoverable
overall (in accordance with standard ISO 22628). These quotas
have been verified using vehicles manufactured between 2007
and 2012. Our strategy for meeting recycling and recovery quotas, adopted in May 2007, continued to be implemented in 2014.
The Vehicle Recycling Steering Group controls all relevant Group
and brand activities.

111

The Original Parts Center (OTC ) is the largest of its kind in Europe. It
opened in 1994 and has been growing ever since. With 500,000 m²
of buildings, it now covers the equivalent of 70 football pitches. In
addition to manufacturing components and handling the sale of
original parts, the OTC also remanufactures used engines and gearboxes, thereby extending the service lives of our models. Since the
OTC opened, it has saved some 351,000 t of steel and almost 49,000
t of aluminum.

I NDIC ATOR S
AND GOAL S
CO NTE NT S
116

Our Approach

118

Financial Indicators

120

Personnel Indicators

125

Environmental Indicators

134

Goals and Actions

­V OLKS­W A­G EN GROUP PRODUCTION LOCATIONS BY REGION
2014

72

4

E U RO P E

NORTH AMERICA

29
A S I A - PAC I F I C

9
SOUTH AMERICA

4
AFRICA

VALUE ADDED GENERATED
BY THE GROUP
2014, in € millions

FOR EIGN SERVIC E EMPLOY­
EES WITH I N TH E GROU P
2014, in thousands

COMPLIANC E WITH
ISO 14001/EM AS WITH I N
TH E GROU P*
2014, in %

52,109

4,507

97.7

(2013: €48,198 millions)

(2013: 4,052)

(2013: 96.8%)

* Basis: Employees (106 production sites as at December 31, 2014).

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

BECAUSE PERFORMANCE
IS WHAT COUNTS.
In this chapter we report on how our key financial, personnel and environmental indicators have
developed over recent years. These indicators provide information on what has already been
achieved, but they also point to where there is still room for improvement. The charts and figures
are therefore followed by a presentation of our goals and an estimation of the extent to which
those goals have so far been achieved.

O U R A PPROACH
GRI G4-17, G4-22, G4-23
The principles of sustainability management in the V
­ olks­wa­gen
Group are described in detail in the Strategy chapter (see page 20),
as are our continuous improvement goals. Our goals and actions,
together with planned activities and current status, are presented
in greater detail at the end of this chapter (see pages 134 – 137).
The table on page 117 provides an overview of Group-wide principles, agreements and methods, which form the basis for our
shared u
­ nderstanding of sustainability across the Group, allowing performance to be measured, controlled and improved.

tions compared to the previous year, with the increase being
largely accounted for by the commercial vehicle sector. This is
now the third time that we have reported emissions in line with
Scope 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG), which makes us
trailblazer in our industry.

Management by Key Indicators

Frame of Reference

In order to manage its sustainability performance, the
­Volks­w a­gen Group collects central performance indicators in
line with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI ) and the ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) indicator
framework of the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies ( EFFAS). Shareholders and investors are increasingly demanding transparency, which makes them an important target
group for our sustainability reporting. What follows is an overview of our economic, environmental and social performance
which is as comprehensive as possible and stated in quantitative
terms.

In principle, the indicators relate to the entire Group, including
any companies in which our equity interest exceeds 50%. For our
joint ventures in China, we report social indicators “at equity”, in
other words 50%, but 100% of environmentally relevant data.
However, due to differing definitions or collection methods, it is not
yet possible in all areas to consolidate the data reported by the
brands and regions, which means that there are still numerous exceptions. In this report, all indicators which are collected and consolidated across the Group are therefore marked with a symbol ,
while those which are not marked with the symbol only relate to
parts of the Group, with footnotes explaining which parts. In the
coming years, we will continue to endeavor to make data collection
uniform for all locations and companies.

VV Trailblazer in the industry in reporting
emissions in line with Scope 3 of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

VV Creating transparency in line
with Global Reporting Initiative
requirements.

Auditing and Standards
The ­Volks­w a­gen Group Sustainability Report 2014 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) against the relevant requirements and criteria laid down in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines
of the Global Reporting Initiative, taking supplementary account of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ( ISAE) 3000. Audit activities which were carried out include: management surveys, surveys of employees responsible

The key indicators presented are a continuation of those from
previous years. There have been no changes in reporting and
measurement methods for our sustainability performance. The
­Volks­w a­gen Group’s production network comprised 118 production locations at the end of the reporting year. This figure is
based on a revised and harmonized method of counting loca-

116

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

l­ ocations compile as part of their voluntary participation in the
European EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) system.
The sustainability reports of the Audi, MAN, Porsche, Scania
and ŠKODA brands are also indicative of the Group’s commitment to sustainability.

for reporting sustainability information, and recording of the
processes used to collect, calculate and report sustainability
information. The quantitative details for the report year 2014
which have been audited by PwC are marked with the following
symbol in the Indicators chapter below: . Further information about the audit can be found in the Independent Assurance
Report on pages 145 – 147.

Further Reporting within the Group
More detailed insight into our environmental management is
provided by the Environmental Statements which numerous

V V S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P: P R I N C I P L E S , S TA N DA R D S A N D P R O C E D U R E S

Introduced

Coverage 2014

Model of Sustainability

2002

Group

­­Volks­wa­gen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its
relationships with business partners

2006

Group

Commitment to United Nations Global Compact

2002

Group

Code of Conduct

2010

Group

Anti-Corruption Guide

2012

Group

Charter on Labour Relations

2009

Group

Charter on Temporary Work

2012

Group

2002, updated 2012

Group

Occupational Safety Policy

2004

Group

“Stimmungsbarometer” (employee opinion survey)

2008

Group

Environmental Policy

1995

Group

Environmental Principles Product

2008

Group

Environmental Principles Production

2007

Group

Mission Statement on Biodiversity

2008

Group

CEO Water Mandate

2013

Group

Sustainability in general

Business

People

Declaration on Social Rights and Industrial Relations
at ­­Volks­wa­gen (Social Charter)

Environment

117

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

Standard (IFRS) for the entire 2010 to 2014 period. The indicators audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the context of the
­Volks­wa­gen AG Annual Report 2014 (status report) for calendar
year 2014 are marked with the following .

F I N A N CI A L I N D I C ATO R S
A detailed presentation of financial indicators can be found in
the current ­Volks­wa­gen Group Annual Report. The indicators
shown below comply with the International Financial Reporting

V V VO L U M E DATA 1

in thousands
2014

Vehicle sales (units)
Germany
Abroad

2013

2012

2011

2010

10,217

9,728

9,345

8,361

7,278

1,247

1,187

1,207

1,211

1,059
6,219

8,970

8,541

8,137

7,150

10,213

9,728

9,255

8,494

7,358

Germany

2,559

2,458

2,321

2,640

2,115

Abroad

Production (units)

7,653

7,270

6,934

5,854

5,243

Employees (yearly average)

583

563

533

454

389

Germany

265

255

237

196

178

Abroad

318

308

296

258

210

1

These figures were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the context of the 2014 Annual Report of ­Volks­wa­gen AG (Management Report).

V V F I N A N C I A L DATA 1

in million €
­Volks­wa­gen Group
Sales revenue

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

126,875

202,458

197,007

192,676

159,337

Operating profit

12,697

11,671

11,498

11,271

7,141

Profit before tax

14,794

12,428

25,487

18,926

8,994

Profit after tax

11,068

9,145

21,881

15,799

7,226

Profit attributable to ­­Volks­wa­gen AG shareholders

10,847

9,066

21,712

15,409

6,835
79,394

Cost of materials

132,514

127,089

122,450

104,648

Personnel expenses

33,834

31,747

29,504

23,854

19,027

Pension provisions

29,806

21,774

23,939

16,787

15,432

Autotive Division2
Cash flows from operating activities3

21,593

20,612

16,232

17,109

13,930

Cash flows from investing activities attributable
to operating activities4

15,476

16,199

16,455

15,998

9,095

Net liquidity at Dec. 31

17,639

16,869

10,573

16,951

18,639

1

These figures were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the context of the 2014 Annual Report of ­Volks­wa­gen AG (Management Report).
2
Including allocation of consolidation adjustments between the Automotive and Financial Services divisions.
3
Before consolidation of intragroup transactions: €22,217 million (€21,270 million).
4
Excluding acquisition and disposal of equity investments: €15,719 million (€14,497 million).

118

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C AT O R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V VA L U E A D D E D G E N E R AT E D BY T H E ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P 1

in million €
Source of funds

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

Sales revenue

202,458

197,007

192,676

159,337

126,875

Other income

14,192

13,994

24,642

13,125

10,787

–132,514

–127,089

–122,450

–104,648

–79,394

Depreciation and amortization

–16,964

–14,686

–13,135

–10,346

–10,097

Other upfront expenditures

–15,063

–21,027

–22,070

–9,759

–15,250

52,109

48,198

59,663

47,709

32,922

Cost of materials

Value added

Appropriation of funds in € million

2014

to shareholders (dividend)
to employees (wages, salaries, benefits)

%

2013

%

2012

%

2011

%

2010

%

2,294

4.4

1,871

3.9

1,639

2.8

1,406

2.9

1,034

3.1

33,834

64.9

31,747

65.9

29,504

49.5

23,854

50.0

19,027

57.8

to the state (taxes, duties)

3,817

7.3

3,865

8.0

4,322

7.2

4,525

9.5

3,105

9.5

to creditors (interest expense)

3,389

6.5

3,442

7.1

3,957

6.6

3,530

7.4

3,563

10.8

8,774

16.8

7,274

15.1

20,242

33.9

14,393

30.2

6,193

18.8

to the Company (reserves)
Value added

52,109
1

48,198

59,663

47,709

32,922

These figures were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the context of the 2014 Annual Report of ­Volks­wa­gen AG (Management Report).

V V K E Y F I G U R E S BY B R A N D A N D B U S I N E S S F I E L D 1

Vehicle sales

Thousand vehicles/€ million

2014

Sales revenue
2013

2014

Sales to third parties
2013

2014

Operating profit

2013

2014

2013

­­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars

4,583

4,704

99,764

99,397

68,396

71,426

2,476

2,894

Audi

1,444

1,349

53,787

49,880

36,105

34,560

5,150

5,030

ŠKODA

796

719

11,758

10,324

6,144

5,379

817

522

SEAT

501

459

7,699

6,874

3,412

3,044

–127

–152

Bentley

11

11

1,746

1,679

1,175

1,122

170

168

Porsche2

187

155

17,205

14,326

15,727

13,175

2,718

2,579

­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles

448

442

436

9,577

9,370

4,826

4,651

504

Scania2

80

80

10,381

10,360

10,381

10,360

955

974

MAN3

120

140

14,286

15,861

14,092

15,744

384

319

VW China4

Other
­­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services3

3,506

3,038

–

–

–

–

–

–

–1,454

–1,364

–45,885

–40,047

22,127

20,227

–2,0525

–2,7255

–

–

22,139

18,983

20,072

17,319

1,702

1,614

­­Volks­wa­gen Group

10,217

9,728

202,458

197,007

202,458

197,007

12,697

11,671

Automotive Division6

10,217

9,728

177,538

175,003

179,864

176,914

10,780

9,807

of which: Passenger Cars business area

9,575

9,071

143,601

140,077

151,138

147,107

9,835

9,013

Commercial Vehicles/
Power Engineering business area

642

657

33,937

34,927

28,726

29,808

945

794

–

–

24,920

22,004

22,594

20,093

1,917

1,863

Financial Services Division

These figures were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in the context of the 2013 Annual Report of ­Volks­wa­gen AG (Management Report).
All figures shown are rounded, so minor discrepancies may arise from addition of these amounts.
2
Including financial services.
3
MAN Finance International GmbH has been reported within ­Volks­wa­gen Financial Services since its acquisition
by Financial Services AG as of January 1, 2014. The prior-year figures have not been adjusted.
4
The sales revenue and operating profit of the joint venture companies in China are not included in the figures for the Group. The Chinese companies are
accounted for using the equity method and recorded a proportionate operating profit of €5,182 million (€4,296 million).
5
Mainly intragroup items recognized in profit or loss, in particular from the elimination of intercompany profits; the figure includes depreciation and
amortization of identifiable assets as part of the purchase price allocation for Scania, Porsche Holding Salzburg, MAN and Porsche.
6
Including allocation of consolidation adjustments between the Automotive and Financial Services divisions.
1

119

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

PE R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

V V N U M B E R O F E M P L OY E E S I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

As at 31 December 2014, the ­Volks­w a­gen Group, including the
Chinese joint ventures, had 592,586 employees, 3.5% more
than at the end of the 2013 financial year. Major factors in this
rise were new hirings in growth markets, in particular in China,
and the employment of specialists and experts, not least in Germany. The distribution of Group employees between Germany
and outside Germany remained virtually unchanged over the
past year: as at the end of 2014, 45.7% of employees worked in
Germany on the reporting date.

BY S E G M E N T
Passenger Cars

466,439

Commercial Vehicles/
Power Engineering 111,214

Financial Services

14,933

V V TO TA L W O R K F O R C E O F T H E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

2014

592,586

2013

572,800

2012

549,763

2011

501,956

2010

399,381

V V N U M B E R O F E M P L OY E E S I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P BY T Y P E O F WO R K

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

Production workers

273,418

265,474

258,685

246,071

207,391

Non-production workers

300,709

289,623

274,364

240,864

181,445

Apprentices
Total workforce
of whom active employees
of whom in passive phased retirement

18,459

17,703

16,714

15,021

10,545

592,586

572,800

549,763

501,956

399,381

566,998

545,596

525,245

482,447

384,058

7,129

9,501

7,804

4,488

4,778

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

438,631

424,964

410,427

378,030

290,159

59,790

61,796

63,193

58,072

54,571

6,330

6,356

6,461

6,602

6,546

86,752

78,672

68,704

58,540

47,607

V V N U M B E R O F E M P L OY E E S I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P BY R E G I O N

Europe
The Americas
Africa
Asia
Australia
Total

1,083

1,012

978

712

498

592,586

572,800

549,763

501,956

399,381

of whom temporary staff

15,161

17,419

24,914

28,342

21,119

of whom permanent staff

577,425

555,381

524,849

473,614

378,262

120

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C AT O R S

V V FEM A L E EM PLOY E ES I N TH E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G RO U P *

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V PRO P O R TI O N O F WOM E N I N TH E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G RO U P

in %

IN GERMANY*
in %

2014

15.7

2013

15.5

2012

15.2

Total apprentices

28.2

27.4

2011

14.7

Industrial apprentices

21.8

21.4

2010

14.2

Commercial apprentices

56.2

53.2

Students on “dual system” courses

32.1

31.4

Total management

10.2

9.8

University graduates recruited**

30.9

35.3

* From 2011 incl. Scania.
From 2013 incl. MAN and Porsche.

2014

2013

* Excl. Scania, MAN and Porsche.
** ­Volks­wa­gen AG .

One of the Company’s goals is to continue to increase the proportion of women from 15.7% across the Group, especially in management. In the reporting year, the proportion of women in management roles in the V
­olks­
wa­
gen Group in Germany was

increased to 8.3% among senior management and 11.7% in
management, while among top management the proportion rose
from 4.8% in 2013 to 5.7% in the reporting year (situation at year
end, excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche).

V V A PPR E N T I CES I N T H E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G RO U P I N G E R M A N Y

V V L E V E L O F Q UA L I F I C AT I O N S I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P *

in %

in %

2014

4.8

2013

4.8

20.2
59.5

2012

4.8

17.5

2011

4.8

2010

4.6

2014

2.8
21.1

2013

56.1
19.8
3.0
Higher education
Secondary education

Vocational education and training
Other

* Excl. Scania and MAN .
From 2014 incl. MAN .

Due to its targeted recruitment measures, the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group
employs a large proportion of well qualified employees. Some 97%
of employees hold some form of qualification.

121

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N AG : AV E R AG E AG E

2014

2013

2012

Women

38.4

38.3

38.0

37.8

37.9

Men

43.6

43.7

43.4

43.1

43.2

Total ­­Volks­wa­gen AG

42.8

42.9

42.6

42.3

42.4

Since 2009, the average age at V
­ olks­wa­gen AG has been relatively
constant, which is a sign of a healthy balance between recruit-

2011

2010

ment of employees on completion of their vocational education
and training and retirement of long-serving employees.

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N AG : E M P L OY E E T U R N OV E R *

in %
2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

Total

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.5

Women

0.3

0.3

0.2

0.4

0.4

Men

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.4

0.5

* Not incl. age-related turnover.

The employee turnover rate indicates the percentage of employees
that leave the Company in the course of a year. As the chart shows,

there is a very high level of stability in the ­Volks­wa­gen workforce.

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N AG : AV E R AG E P E R I O D O F E M P L OYM E N T

V V A B S E N T E E I S M – CU M U L AT I V E VA L U E S*

in %
2014

18.4

2014

2013

19.0

2013

3.4
3.3

2012

19.1

2012

3.2

2011

19.0

2011

3.4

2010

19.5

2010

3.3

* Production locations with over 1,000 employees, not incl. Scania, MAN , Ducati, Shanghai
­Volks­wa­gen Powertrain and ­Volks­wa­gen Automatic Transmission, from 2014 incl. Porsche.

Low absenteeism calls for increased availability of diagnostic
and screening measures. Absenteeism is calculated using the
formula: number of days lost to illness or accident multiplied
by 100, divided by total possible days’ attendance in the relevant period.

122

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C AT O R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N AG : PA R E N TA L L E AV E

Total
Women
Men

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2,259

1,822

1,586

1,367

1,150

601

537

472

406

351

1,658

1,285

1,114

961

799

V V E M P L OY E E O P I N I O N S U R V E Y I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

V V E M P L OY E E O P I N I O N S U R V E Y I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

L E V E L O F PA R T I C I PAT I O N

E M P L OY E E S AT I S FAC T I O N I N D E X

in %
2014

89

2014

79

2013

89

2013

79

2012

90

2012

79

2011

89

2011

77

2010

87

2010

76

The annual employee opinion survey (“Stimmungsbarometer”),
introduced in 2008, is an established standardized Group-wide
tool designed to assess employee satisfaction, eliminate errors

and improve work processes. Its acceptance and level of participation are at a constant high level.

V V AG E S T RU C T U R E O F T H E VO
­­ L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

V V FO REIGN SERVICE EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE ­V O LK S­W A­G EN GROUP *

in %
2014

4,507

1.9

2013

4,052

0.5

2012

3,836

2011

2,941

2010

2,364

< 20 years

20 – 29 years
19.8
3.8

from Germany

30 – 39 years

to Germany

except Germany

22.4
4.7

* From 2013 also including MAN , Scania, Porsche AG , Ducati and Porsche Holding.

40 – 49 years
22.0
4.1
50 – 59 years
16.0
2.2
> 60 years
2.4
0.3
Men

Women

123

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V ACC I D E N T I N D E X E S G R O U P *

2014

V V ACC I D E N T S E V E R I T Y G R O U P *

3.6

2014

35,361

2013

28,134

2012

25,907

2011

26,504

2010

27,084

4.8
2.9

2013

2,646

4.4
2.9

2012

1,855

4.3
2011

3.2

2010

3.6

1,728

4.7

1,806

5.3
Accident frequency

Accident severity

1,855
Working days lost

Number of occupational accidents

* Production locations not incl. Scania, from 2014 incl. MAN . In line with the harmonization of the data basis within the Group, calculation of the coverage rate of the Group’s
­production locations for 2014 has been adjusted and extended. The coverage rate for accident indexes for the year is 69.1%.

The number of occupational accidents, the accident frequency
­i ndex and the accident severity index have risen in the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group. This is primarily due to the integration of a new company
into the Group.
The greatest improvements in accident frequency were achieved at
­Volks­wa­gen do Brasil (Anchieta, Curitiba, Taubaté) and SEAT
(Barcelona, Martorell).
In 2014, one employee of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group died as a result of
an occupational accident.

The accident frequency index is an indication of the frequency
with which accidents at work occurred in relation to the total number of hours worked. The formula for calculating the index is:
number of occupational accidents, multiplied by 1 million, divided by the number of hours worked.
The accident severity index indicates how serious the accidents are
by relating the total number of working days lost to the number of
hours worked. The formula for calculating the index is: number of
working days lost, multiplied by 1 million, divided by the number
of hours worked multiplied by ten.

V V A P P R E N T I C E S W I T H I N T H E ­­VO L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P

December 2014

Total

Germany

International

­­Volks­wa­gen Passenger Cars

6,692

5,390

1,302

Audi

2,647

2,521

126

889

6

883

Porsche

632

611

21

SEAT

168

0

168

ŠKODA

Bentley

95

0

95

2,153

1,152

1,001

13,276

9,680

3,596

3,312

2,341

971

Scania

702

0

702

­­Volks­wa­gen Commercial Vehicles

993

736

257

5,007

3,077

1,930

Others
Automotive Division
MAN

Commercial Vehicles/Power Engineering Division
Financial Services Division
Group

124

176

147

29

18,459

12,904

5,555

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C AT O R S

E N V I RO N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

The respective proportions are indicated separately in the
graphs. Unless indicated otherwise, all the Group’s production
locations and the power stations and boiler plants operated by
­Volks­wa­gen AG at the Wolfsburg, Kassel and Hanover locations
in Germany are included in both categories. The ­Volks­wa­gen
Group is essentially an automotive manufacturer which produces cars and light commercial vehicles as well as heavy-duty commercial vehicles and buses. MAN SE does, however, also manufacture marine engines or power station components. Due to this
product diversity, the entirety of the environmental impact cannot simply be related to the volume of vehicles produced. Relative
indicators are thus only stated for the “car and light commercial
vehicle” category. The number of vehicles produced in 2014 totaled 10,014,282 cars and light commercial vehicles, as well as
198,280 heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
The influence of increasing production volumes is reflected in an
increase in absolute values for many indicators. However, thanks
to increased efficiency, an improvement in specific values has
been achieved for many indicators. A high level of capacity utilization of the production locations has also had a positive impact
on specific indicators.
Weather conditions have an appreciable, but uncontrollable, impact on consumption of resources. This primarily relates to space
heating demand, both for production for non-production sectors, since changing annual average temperatures have an impact on direct consumption of energy sources as well as on the
amount of purchased energy. Various aspects thus exert an influence on the specific values. On the one hand, absolute consumption or emission values may change, while on the other hand rising or falling production volumes at the individual production
locations also influence the indicators.

This chapter presents selected environmental data for the
­Volks­wa­gen Group in aggregated form. The data are collected,
checked and approved at the production locations in line with an
internal standard ( VW standard 98 000). In order to improve the
accuracy and consistency of the resultant information, the collection of environmentally relevant consumption and emission
data is subject to a continuous improvement process. This applies
in particular to those items of information which have to be
­recorded with the assistance of specific calculation algorithms.
Moreover, the values for December of the preceding year may
­i nclude some estimated data, for example if they are based on bills
from power suppliers or waste disposal providers which were not
yet available at the time of compilation. In the next data collection
round, these estimated data are then replaced with the values for
December which have become available in the meantime.
In a similar way to corporate environmental strategy monitoring, the reported time series are relative to the 2010 baseline.
The current reporting year and the corresponding preceding
year complete the reporting period.
Overall, the environmental data are collected from production
­locations with some 550,000 employees (as at December 31, 2014),
which equates to a proportion of around 97 percent. In addition, the
production locations in Ningbo (Shanghai-­Volks­wa­gen Automotive
Company Ltd.), Foshan (FAW-­Volks­wa ­gen Automotive Company
Ltd.) and Foshan ( ­Volks­wa ­gen FAW Platform Company Ltd.) were
included in the data collection for 2014.
The data in the “car and light commercial vehicle” category for
the years 2010, 2013 and 2014 are recorded as in the ­Volks­wa­gen
Group’s Annual Report. The data for the brands Scania AB, MAN
SE , Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. and VW Kraftwerk GmbH are
reported in the “Other divisions” category.

125

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V E N E RG Y CO N S U M P T I O N *

V V E N E RG Y CO N S U M P T I O N *

in million MWh/year

in kWh/vehicle

2014

11.95

2014

595

3.98

391

11.47

2013

1,068

6.77

1,076

2013

7.57

704

4.09

424

9.45

2010

Electricity

Heat

1,197

2010

6.46

855

3.47

467

Fuel gases for manufacturing processes
Other divisions

Electricity

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Heat

Fuel gases for manufacturing processes

Cars and light commercial vehicles 	

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Over the reporting period shown, a continuous reduction in specific energy consumption per vehicle was achieved. As a result of
higher production volumes, absolute energy consumption rose,
but with a slight decline in the rate of increase compared to the
previous year.
The proportion of electrical energy has risen continuously over
the reporting period, but measures to increase efficiency reduced the proportion per vehicle produced. Heat consumption is
subdivided into heating demand for heating production and
non-production sectors, and heating demand for industrial processes. Since space heating accounts for the greater proportion
of total heating d
­ emand, weather conditions have a major impact
on trends in overall heating demand.

Accordingly, 2014’s above-average temperatures had a positive
influence on heat consumption.
In addition to this influence, measures to increase efficiency
­reduced the specific value per vehicle.
Fuel gases for production processes are mainly used for industrial processes during production. For example, they are used as
combustion fuels for operating industrial afterburning facilities
in paintshops or in annealing furnaces in component manufacture. Consumption of these fuel gases thus increases with rising
­production volumes. Thanks to implementation of the Group’s
­resource conservation strategy, fuel gas consumption figures
relative to production volume have been reduced.

V V D I R E C T CO 2 - E M I SS I O N S S CO P E 1*

V V D I R E C T CO 2 - E M I SS I O N S S CO P E 1*

in million tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

2014

3.96

2014

376

2013

4.20

2013

422

2010

4.32

2010

588

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions

Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Despite increased production volumes and the inclusion of new
production locations, with a consequent increase in energy consumption, direct CO 2 emissions have been falling since 2010.
Direct CO 2 emissions are associated with the combustion of
­fossil energy sources. A positive trend in CO 2 emission factors

from in-house energy supplies has a positive impact on the trend
in direct emissions of CO 2 . Resource-optimized manufacturing
processes have also played a part in this positive trend in direct
CO 2 emissions.

126

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

V V CO 2 - E M I SS I O N S (S CO P E S 1 & 2) *

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V CO 2 - E M I SS I O N S (S CO P E S 1 & 2) *

in million tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

2014

8.98

2014

2013

8.97

2013

885

2010

8.04

2010

1,096

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions

842

Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Total CO 2 emissions have risen due to increased consumption of
electrical energy, heat and fuel gases for production. The rise in
total CO 2 emissions is, however, limited due to increased use of
renewably generated energy and the associated improvement
in CO 2 emission factors.
By using suitable CO 2 emission factors to evaluate energy and
heat consumption figures for production locations, the CO 2
emissions arising from power and heat generation for
­Volks­w a­gen AG’s production locations in power stations and
boiler plants operated by V
­ olks­w a­gen AG are included in the total volume of CO 2 emissions.

The stated carbon dioxide emissions do not include the emissions arising from district heating and power supplied to third
parties from power stations operated by ­Volks­w a­gen AG . For
2014, these emissions amounted to 297,371 tonnes of carbon
dioxide.
A continuous reduction in CO 2 emissions per vehicle produced
was achieved over the stated reporting period.
The “Other divisions” category also includes CO 2 emissions
from the manufacture of heavy-duty commercial vehicles,
which account for around 75 percent of total CO 2 emissions in
this category.

V V CO 2 E Q U I VA L E N T S*

V V CO 2 E Q U I VA L E N T S*

in million tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

2014

0.048

2014

2013

0.055

2013

5.79

2010

0.035

2010

4.87

Cars and light commercial vehicles

4.79

Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Group production locations

* Group production locations

CO 2 equivalents are calculated on the basis of the specific global
warming potentials of individual, emitted refrigerants. Since
such emissions do not occur continuously and are not dependent

on a location’s production volume, relatively large fluctuations
may arise over a time series.

127

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V G R O U P G H G E M I S S I O N S (S CO P E 3) (C A R S A N D L I G H T CO M M E R C I A L V E H I C L E S)

20142

No.

Category

1
2
3

20132

tonnes CO2

%

tonnes CO2

%

Purchased goods and services

58,561,828

Capital goods

10,994,208

17.8

56,435,510

17.6

3.3

10,018,369

Fuel/energy

3.1

1,305,944

0.4

1,338,497

0.4

4

Upstream transportation and distribution (U3)

3,277,6171

1.0

3,277,617

1.0

5

Waste generated in operations

1,968,941

0.6

1,943,160

0.6

6

Business travel

639,993

0.2

618,624

0.2

7

Employee commuting

912,283

0.3

881,823

0.3

8

Upstream leased assets (U3)

Not reported

0.0

Not reported

0.0

9

Downstream transportation
and distribution (D4)

Not reported

0.0

Not reported

0.0

10

Processing of sold products

11

Use phase (150,000 km) 5

12

End-of-life treatment

13

Downstream leased assets (D4)

14

Franchises

1,550,000

0.5

1,550,000

0.5

15

Investments

Not reported

0.0

Not reported

0.0

Total of reported Scope 3 emissions2

328,881,475

100

321,208,248

100

12,994

0.004

6,926

0.002

247,176,955

75.2

243,015,544

75.6

1,748,899

0.5

1,375,646

0.4

731,813

0.2

746,532

0.2

1

Value given in the 2014 CDP Report – the value for 2014 is destined for the 2015 CDP Report.
2
Individual figures are rounded. This can lead to minor discrepancies in the sum total.
3
Upstream.
4
Downstream.
5
Well-to-wheel.

In line with the Scope 3 standard published in 2011 by the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World
­Resources Institute, ­Volks­w a ­gen reports CO 2 emissions for twelve
out of a total of 15 Scope 3 categories. The calculations have
­revealed that the “purchased goods and services” and “use phase”
emission categories account for more than 93% of all Scope 3
emissions. CO 2 emissions in the use phase are calculated on the

basis of a Group fleet value representing the global vehicle population in the four major regions (EU28, USA , Brazil and China).
In view of the preponderance of these two categories, the relevant data were the subject of separate audits by external auditors
from PricewaterhouseCoopers in compliance with audit standard ISAE 3000 “International Standard on Assurance Engagements”.

V V CO 2 - E M I SS I O N S O F T H E V
­ O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P ‘ S E U R O P E A N (E U 2 8) N E W PA SS E N G E R C A R F L E E T

in g/km
2014

126*

2013

129

2012

135

2011

137

2010

144

* Subject to official publication by the European Commission.
The ruling for 2014 was that 80% of the new car fleet must not exceed the prescribed level of 130 g CO2/km.
In the reporting year, this value for the ­Volks­wa­gen Group was 115 g CO2/km.

128

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

V V D I R E C T N O X A N D S O 2 E M I S S I O N S*

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V D I R E C T N O X A N D S O 2 E M I S S I O N S*

in tonnes/year

in g/vehicle

2014

4,017

2014

203

2013

238

2010

373

1,211

2

4,208

2013

2,020

17

4,331

2010

2,084

51

Cars and light commercial vehicles: nitrogen oxides (NO x as NO 2)
Cars and light commercial vehicles: sulfur dioxide (SO 2)

Cars and light commercial vehicles: nitrogen oxides (NO x as NO 2)
Cars and light commercial vehicles: sulfur dioxide (SO 2)

Other divisions

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

There was a clear decline in NO x emissions in the 2010 to 2014
period.

The sharp decline in direct sulfur dioxide emissions in 2014 is
the result of changes in ownership of a power generation plant.

V V VO C E M I S S I O N S*

V V VO C E M I S S I O N S*

in tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

2014

31,777

2014

2013

35,541

2013

3.57

2010

30,347

2010

4.13

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions

3.05

Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Coating processes account for the majority of VOC emissions.
Modern paintshops use coating and process materials which
contain less solvents. In addition, steps are taken during the
coating process to collect or eliminate any solvents which are
emitted. This is achieved, for example, by thermal afterburning
of the exhaust air from the dryers, which are downstream of the
actual coating process. Emissions into the environment are determined on the basis of both instrumental measurements and
calculations.

The complexity of the overall coating process and new insights
into determination methods may result in adjustments being
made to previously determined emission values. The result is,
however, always a higher degree of accuracy of the recorded
­environmental data.
Increased vehicle production volumes and an increase in the
­a ssociated coating operations resulted in a slight rise in absolute VOC emissions over the entire reporting period. Due to the
influencing factors described above, emissions per vehicle produced fell over the reporting period.

129

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V WA S T E F O R D I S P O S A L 1 , 2

V V WA S T E F O R D I S P O S A L 2

in tonnes/year
2014

in kg/vehicle
81,660

2014

7.71

113,933

10.55

99,120

2013

9.85

2013

103,818

10.24

103,037

2010

14.03

2010

71,094

9.27

Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions:
		 non-hazardous waste for disposal
Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions:
		 hazardous waste for disposal

Cars and light commercial vehicles: non-hazardous waste for disposal
Cars and light commercial vehicles: hazardous waste for disposal

V V WA S T E F O R R E C YC L I N G 1 , 2

V V WA S T E F O R R E C YC L I N G 2

in tonnes/year
2014

in kg/vehicle
513,316

2014

141,172
1,988,329
2013

2010

193.50

470,239

2013

36.80

124,340

10.80

1,897,600

193.82

298,753

2010

33.28

97,607

12.43

1,584,514

217.27

Cars and light commercial vehicles: non-hazardous waste for recycling
Cars and light commercial vehicles: hazardous waste for recycling
Cars and light commercial vehicles: metallic waste
Other divisions

1

39.39
11.62

Cars and light commercial vehicles: non-hazardous waste for recycling
Cars and light commercial vehicles: hazardous waste for recycling
Cars and light commercial vehicles: metallic waste

In the bars showing “Non-hazardous waste for recycling”, as well as “Hazardous waste
for recycling” and “Metallic waste”, the share accounted for by other Group divisions is
shown. This is not depicted separately for the other fractions, however, on account of
the low proportions.
2
Group production sites

troductory phase and targets the reduction of total volumes of
hazardous and non-hazardous waste per vehicle.
The absolute quantity of metallic “waste”, which in the light of
its high recycling rate can be considered to be a valuable material, has increased in absolute terms over the reporting period as
a whole due to increased production volumes across the Group.
The volume of metallic waste per vehicle, however, has been
­r educed by improvements in material utilization and resource-­
optimized manufacturing processes.

As a result of higher production volumes over the reporting period, larger volumes of hazardous and non-hazardous waste were
also generated, while the proportion of waste for disposal has
been reduced from around 31% in 2010 to around 23% in 2014.
In contrast, the proportion of waste for recycling has been increased from around 69% in 2010 to around 77% in 2014. The
increase in the proportion of recycled waste is also the result of
the Group’s waste strategy, the first stage of which targets higher recycling rates. The second stage of this strategy is in the in-

130

OUR APPROACH

V V F R E S H WAT E R

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

A N D WA S T E WAT E R *

V V F R E S H WAT E R

in million m 3/year
2014

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

A N D WA S T E WAT E R *

in m 3/vehicle
56.41

2014

4.23

2013

4.38

2010

4.54

35.43

3.38

54.86

2013

35.53

3.55

37.23

2010

27.93

3.76

Cars and light commercial vehicles: freshwater volume		
Cars and light commercial vehicles: wastewater volume
Other divisions

Cars and light commercial vehicles: freshwater volume	 
Cars and light commercial vehicles: wastewater volume

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Given the increase in production volumes of cars and light commercial vehicles, consumption of freshwater has also risen continuously over the last five years. The construction of new locations has made a major contribution to the increase in
consumption over this period. Despite the increased number of
Group locations, freshwater consumption per vehicle has been
reduced by around 6.8% over the reporting period. This has been
achieved by numerous recycling measures including reuse of
used water in coating processes.

Wastewater volumes show a similar trend to freshwater. Thanks to
the introduction of increasing numbers of waterless manufacturing processes and water recycling, wastewater volumes per car
and light commercial vehicle produced have been reduced by
around 10.1% over the reporting period. For instance, purified
wastewater from an evaporator is reused for cleaning workshop
floors.

V V C H E M I C A L OX YG E N D E M A N D (CO D) *

V V C H E M I C A L OX YG E N D E M A N D (CO D) *

in tonnes/year

in g/vehicle

2014

6,306

2014

630

2013

6,171

2013

649

2010

4,043

2010

555

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Group production sites

* Group production sites

Due to increased production across the Group, there was a rise in
the wastewater parameter chemical oxygen demand, both in absolute terms and per vehicle produced. This parameter is an indicator of the level of contamination of wastewater.
Depending on where wastewater is purified, a distinction is drawn
between locations which, as indirect dischargers, discharge

wastewater into municipal sewers for further purification, and
those locations which, as direct dischargers, carry out wastewater
treatment in-house and discharge the purified wastewater directly into a body of water. In 2014, indirectly discharging locations
accounted for 92% (2010: 91%; 2013: 92%) of the Group’s total
wastewater volumes (excluding MAN SE and Scania AB).

131

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

V V WA S T E WAT E R D I S C H A RG E S  

V V WAT E R W I T H D R AWA L BY S O U RC E

in million m 3/year

in million m 3/year

2014

5.09

2014

1.46

0.84

0.20

5.44

2013

3.98

0.91

1.89

2013

5.9

2010

0.28

0.71
Receiving stream

3.93
2.04

2010

Municipal effluent treatment plant

0.21
2.79

Figures for sites of ­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­Volks­wa­gen Sachsen GmbH,
­ olks­wa­gen Osnabrück GmbH (since 2012) and ­Volks­wa­gen Hannover GmbH.
V

Groundwater

Rainwater/surface water

Drinking water

Figures for sites of ­Volks­wa­gen AG , ­Volks­wa­gen Sachsen GmbH,
­Volks­wa­gen Osnabrück GmbH (since 2012) and ­Volks­wa­gen Hannover GmbH.

V V E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N CO S T S*

V V E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N CO S T S*

in € million/year

in €/vehicle

2014

19

2014

15

226

184

14

2013

12

2013

224

192

12

2010

11

2010

197
Capital costs

179

Operating costs

Capital costs

Operating costs

* German production sites ­Volks­wa­gen AG .

* German production sites ­Volks­wa­gen AG .

The environmental protection costs of ­Volks­wa­gen AG’s German
locations are shown above.
Both capital and operating costs for environmental protection
have risen over the reporting period. This is also reflected in the
specific environmental costs per manufactured vehicle.
­Volks­wa­gen breaks down expenditure for environmental protection measures in “Capital expenditure and operating costs for
­production-related environmental protection”. Of total capital
­expenditure, only those items which are solely or predominantly
dedicated to environmental protection are counted as capital
­expenditure for environmental protection. A distinction is drawn
between additive and integrated capital expenditure. Additive
­environmental protection measures are separate plants isolated
from the remainder of the production process. They may be locat-

ed upstream or downstream of the manufacturing process. In
contrast to additive environmental protection facilities, in integrated measures the environmental impact is mitigated while the
product is being produced. The focus of environmental protection
in 2014 was on water quality management.
The indicated operating costs solely concern production-related
environmental protection measures which help to conserve the
“environment” as a protected resource from harmful impact by
avoiding, reducing or eliminating emissions from the Company’s
activities. Operating costs include, for example, expenditure for
the operation of plant and equipment that serves to protect the
­environment, as well as expenditure for measures not related to
plant and equipment. The priorities in 2014 were water quality
management, waste management and air pollution control.

132

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P G E R M A N Y PA R T I CU L AT E E M I SS I O N S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

V V ­V O L K S­W A­G E N G R O U P G E R M A N Y PA R T I CU L AT E E M I SS I O N S

( TO TA L D U ST )

( TO TA L D U ST )

in tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

2014

232

2014

2013

170

2013

23.13
17.88

2010

172

2010

23.64

put. In addition, at one production location temporary above-­
average emission values were determined which have since been
reduced by means of appropriate measures.

The development of particulate emissions in the passenger car
and light commercial vehicle category at the Group’s production
locations in Germany is related not least to the increase in unit out-

VV PL A NT S I N TH E V I CI N IT Y O F PROTEC TE D SITES

Plants

Distance (km)

Braunschweig (D): Oker

0.8

Chemnitz (D): Zwönitz

2.5

Dresden (D): Mühlberg
Ehra-Lessien (D): Vogelmoor
Emden (D)
Hanover (D): Leine

1

Area* (ha) Plants

53 Poznań, Logistics (PL): Dolina Cybiny
21.3 Poznań, Foundry (PL): Fortyfikacje-w-Poznańiu
8.3 Poznań, Production (PL): Dolina Cybiny

3.9
0.9
0.75

Distance (km)

Mlada Boleslav, Production (CZ): Radouci
400 Vrachlabi, Production (CZ): Krkonose
118 Kvasiny, Production (CZ): Uh inov-Benàtky

Area* (ha)

2.7

30

6.7

40

0.6

40

1.2

212

1.1

23

5

42
12.4

Ingolstadt (D): Übungsplatz

3.8

200 Martin, Components (SK): Malá Fatra

<5

Kassel (D): Fuldatal

1.6

280 Bratislava, Production (SK): Moravy

<2

178

0

20 Palmela, Production (POR): Arrabida

3.5

24.5

Leipzig (D): Tannenwald, Strohgäu
Neckarsulm (D): Jagst, Kocher

0.1

95 Barcelona, Production (ES): Llobregat

3.6

39.3

Osnabrück (D): Mausohr, Belm

5.45

36.1 Martorell, FE , Production (ES): Llobregat

0.85

800

Salzgitter (D): Heerter See

7.5

280 Pamplona, Production (ES): Pena de Etxauri

15

163

0.7

15.5

Stuttgart (D): Max-Eyth-See

0.75

28.8 Prat, Components (ES): Llobregat

Weißach (D): Enztal, Stuttgarter Bucht

0.05

84.9 Brussels, Production (B): Verrewinkel-Kinsendael

3

44

Wolfsburg (D): Barnbruch

0.2

800 Györ, Components (HU): Göny i homokvidék

<1

30

Zwickau (D): Zwickauer Muldetal

0.1

180 Crewe (UK): West Midlands Moor

5.7

Polkovice, Components (PL): Jelonek

7.9

Polkovice, Sitech (PL): Jelonek

3.2
* Area = surface area of the production site.

92/43/ EEC of May 21, 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora (The Habitats Directive).

The locations stated here are the V
­ olks­wa­gen brand’s production
locations in Germany and the rest of Europe which are located
in the vicinity of protected sites pursuant to Council Directive

133

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

GOALS AND ACTIONS
The goals set out below relate primarily to the V
­ olks­wa­gen Group. Along with those related to
Group-wide sustainability management, the goals are aligned with the three dimensions of
Economy, People and Environment. In addition, the main brands and companies within the
­Volks­wa­gen Group have set up detailed sustainability goals of their own which are aligned with
the Group’s corporate goals.

V V S T R AT E G Y & CO O R D I N AT I O N

Action areas

Goals and actions

Deadline

2014 implementation

Management

Ensure similar management of sustainability in the Group
and in the brands and companies

2015

Management structure introduced at ­Volks­wa­gen
Commercial Vehicles

Transparency

Establish IT-based sustainability management system at
Group, brand and company level

2016

Group-wide provision of data for the Sustainability
Report 2014

Group Sustainability Reporting Guideline

2014

Drawn up and signed off by the Corporate CSR &
­ ustainability Steering Group
S

Establish IT-based stakeholder management system at
Group, brand and company level

2016

Definition of criteria and indicators for the
Stakeholder Relationship Management System

Action areas

Goals and actions

Deadline

2014 implementation

Customer satisfaction

Top customer satisfaction with product, dealer and last
workshop visit in the core markets

2018

Overall satisfaction: all Group brands with top scores
in overall evaluation in core markets EU5, China, USA
and Brazil
Product satisfaction: all Group brands in first place in
comparison with competitors in EU5 markets
Dealer satisfaction: In China, ŠKODA dealers have the
most satisfied customers across the market, closely
followed by the ­Volks­wa­gen and Audi brands
Service: Group brands particularly impressive in EU5:
Audi, ŠKODA and SEAT generate the highest
satisfaction scores for workshop service in
comparison with competitors

Quality

Strengthen innovation and technology leadership

2019

2015 – 2019 investment program: €85.6 billion
earmarked for intelligent innovations and
technologies

Stakeholder dialogue

V V E CO N O MY

134

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

Action areas

Goals and actions

Deadline

2014 implementation

Stability & profitability

Return on sales before tax for the Group >8%

2018

7.3%

“Future Tracks” efficiency and future initiative

ongoing

2015-2020: savings of €10 billion

Strengthen networking of compliance organization and
activities

ongoing

All Group brands involved in exchange of experience
in Governance, Risk & Compliance (GRC) in
Braunschweig; regional network meetings and GRC
wiki as information and exchange platform for GRC
organization

Firmly embed compliance culture and improve awareness
of relevant compliance values and principles in the
workforce

ongoing

Information supplied to specific target groups via
different media in various brands and companies

Continuous optimization of Compliance Management
System (CMS)

ongoing

Further development of CMS taking account of
international legislation and internal Group
benchmarks

Ongoing optimization of integrity checking of business
partners (Business Partner Check)

ongoing

Further development and roll-out in new companies

Compliance, risk
management, governance

Carry out and enhance Group-wide compliance training for ongoing
various target groups

Supplier relations

Vehicle safety

Risk-based approach in classroom and online training
courses

Operate and further develop risk management and
internal control system (RMS/ICS) in operating business
units

ongoing

Operating business units advised during ongoing
implementation of RMC/ICS guideline

Standardize and further develop risk management
methods and processes to safeguard the future viability of
the ­Volks­wa­gen Group

ongoing

GRC IT system further developed to ensure consistent

Integrate sustainability requirements into contracts
between the Group and its suppliers

2014

Sustainability requirements contractually integrated
into the procurement process

Extend E-Learning tool and sustainability questionnaire

ongoing

In terms of procurement expenditures 71% coverage
for E-Learning tool and 87% for sustainability
questionnaire; planned increase of coverage to 73%
for E-Learning and 89% for sustainability
questionnaire in 2015  

Perform in-depth sustainability audits

ongoing

10 audits carried out over the reporting period.
Extension to 30 audits planned in 2015

Provide supplier qualification on sustainability

ongoing

Qualification of more than 900 suppliers on the
subject of sustainability

Vision Zero: develop innovative driver assistance systems
with the goal of accident-free mobility

ongoing

Traffic Jam Assist introduced in the Passat•

135

and standardized recording of risks; good practices
for typical risks, appropriate risk control measures
and suitable monitoring schemes for selected risk
areas developed

I N D I C AT O R S A N D G OA L S

VV PEO PL E

Action areas

Goals and actions

Deadline

2014 implementation

Attractive Employer

Top employer in the automotive sector

2018

Our aim is to become the most attractive
employer in the automotive sector. We aim to
achieve long-term success through the excellent
performance of a top team of almost 600,000
employees. In 2014 we attained leading positions
in several different employer rankings.

Qualification

Provide excellent qualification within all the
“Berufsfamilien” (professional families)

ongoing

90% of the 36 Berufsfamilien at ­Volks­wa­gen have
already introduced their own specific qualification
programs, while preparations have been made at
the remaining 10%. Qualification is coordinated by
a current total of 13 Berufsfamilien Academies.
These are grouped under the umbrella of the ­Volks­
wa­gen Group Academy, whose aim is to leverage
synergies and ensure an outstanding level of
employee qualification across the Group.

Strengthen dual vocational education and training
2018
internationally. Introduce personnel development in
leadership and management to same standards worldwide

More than three-quarters of all apprentices at the
­Volks­wa­gen Group learn their profession in line
with the principle of dual vocational education and
training.
In 2014, 432 ­Volks­wa­gen Group employees
worldwide completed the group leader
qualification (Meister-Basis-Qualifizierung).
Uniform standards for personnel development
processes for future supervisors and managers
within the Group were agreed for the ­Volks­wa­gen,
Audi, MAN , SEAT, ŠKODA and Porsche brands at the
beginning of 2014.

Participation

Enhance performance and ensure all employees share in
success: establish three-part pay system with basic pay,
performance-related component and entitlement to
profit-sharing as Group standard

ongoing

In 2014, employees at more than 30 Group
locations benefited from profit-sharing, including
those at ­Volks­wa­gen locations in Spain, Poland,
Russia, Mexico and China.

Health

Promote health, fitness and ergonomics: extension of the
Checkup and follow-up screening and training programs

ongoing

The Checkup is now established at all German and
many international sites. For example, over 18,000
Checkups were carried out at ŠKODA AUTO a.s. in
the Czech Republic in 2014.

Promote health, fitness and ergonomics: continuous
improvement of preventive health measures and training
provision

ongoing

The “Fit in the Factory” program aims to reduce
physical stresses and strains for those working on
the shop floor. Between May 2013 and June 2014,
some 15,700 employees completed one of these
programs at ­Volks­wa­gen in Wolfsburg.

Occupational Safety

Improve Group occupational safety management system
at all production locations

ongoing

An audit of the Group occupational safety
management system was carried out successfully
during 2014 at the following locations: São Carlos
(Brazil), Curitiba (Brazil), Pamplona (Spain) and
Pacheco (Argentina).

Diversity and Equal
Opportunities

Increase the proportion of women at all levels of
management: 30% at all levels of management in the
­Volks­wa­gen Group in Germany; female graduates to
account for 30% of graduate recruitment in the ­­
Volks­wa­gen Group in Germany

ongoing

In 2014 around 30% of graduate recruits at ­­
Volks­wa­gen AG were female. In the medium to long
term this will lead to an increase in the proportion
of women in management roles with the ­­
Volks­wa­gen Group in Germany. In 2014, for
example, the proportion of women in management
within the ­Volks­wa­gen Group in Germany rose
from 9.8% in 2013 to 10.2%.

Social Responsibility

Introduce Group-wide analysis of the effectiveness of
Corporate Citizenship activities and incorporate into
sustainability management system

2015

Criteria-based IT analysis of CSR projects.

Introduce guidelines for developing and carrying out CSR
projects at the Group, brand and company level

2015

Group platform for the exchange of best-practice
projects.

Foster volunteering by ­Volks­wa­gen Group employees

ongoing

The ­Volks­wa­gen pro Ehrenamt office supports all
Group companies in providing strategic support for
employee volunteering. A volunteer database
provides effective assistance in matching supply
and demand, as well as providing information. By
the end of 2104, 2,034 employees had been
successfully placed in volunteer roles.

136

OUR APPROACH

F I N A N C I A L I N D I C ATO R S

P E R S O N N E L I N D I C ATO R S

E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C ATO R S

G OA L S A N D A C T I O N S

VV E N V I RO N M E NT

Action areas

Goals and actions

Climate and environmental Implement Group environmental strategy
protection
Review brand environmental strategies

Deadline

2014 implementation

ongoing

Activities in target areas continued; key focus on
water adopted

2015

“Bentley Environmental Factory”

Establish biodiversity management: analysis of the impacts ongoing
of business activity, inclusion in environmental
management system, cooperation with environmental
associations and suppliers, reporting and communications
Environmentally friendly
products/ electrification

Intelligent mobility and
networking

Resource conservation
across the life cycle

Cut European new car fleet CO2 emissions by around 30%
to 120 g CO2/km over the period 2006 to 2015

2015

Anchored in environmental management;
continuous updating of location reports;
participation in expert dialogue on development of
indicators and impact assessment, dialogue with
suppliers; cooperative projects
EU fleet CO2 emissions in 2014: 126 g

Cut European new car fleet CO2 emissions to 95 g CO2/km

2020

EU fleet CO2 emissions in 2014: 126 g

Win top places in selected product rankings, ratings and
awards

ongoing

eco-up!•, Citygo CNG• and Mii Ecofuel• win 2nd place
in VCD “Cars and the Environment” table (Top Ten
2014/15), 4th place for Audi A3 Sportback g-tron•;
e-Golf • winner of eCarTec award 2014; ­Volks­wa­gen
Group natural gas vehicles win top five places in 2014
VCS “Cars and the Environment” table

Every new model generation to be 10-15% more fuelefficient than its predecessor

ongoing

Systematic implementation of Group Environmental
Principles Product, latest proof: Passat B8 approx.
20%

Extend availability of alternative powertrain systems as an ongoing
integral part of the CO2 mitigation strategy

Market launch of new CNG models, plug-in hybrids
and electric vehicles; see pages 96 – 99 for details

Be the market leader in electric mobility

2018

e-up!•, e-Golf• and Golf GTE• in series production,
Passat plug-in hybrid• (from 2015)
Porsche: Panamera S E-Hybrid•, 918 Spyder, Cayenne
S E-Hybrid•

Be consumption leader in each vehicle class (­Volks­wa­gen
brand)

ongoing

85 models below 100 g; new in 2014: the Polo TSI
BlueMotion•, with the lowest fuel consumption in its
class

Extend range of available products and services

ongoing

Market launch of Supplementary Mobility Card for
­Volks­wa­gen electric-mobility customers; CarNet
extended; “Think Blue. Share a ­Volks­wa­gen” and
Mobility Card pilot projects feature in Lower Saxony
electric mobility showcase and “VRent” in China

Forecast and analyze mobility trends, derive challenges
and approaches for future mobility

ongoing

Presented and discussed in internal Group and brand
Steering Groups and in stakeholder dialogue

Carry out or participate in research projects

ongoing

Sustainable Mobility 2.0 project (WBCSD); INEES
project: smart grid connection of electric vehicles,
funded by German Federal Ministry for the
Environment; URBAN project: improving traffic flow
at junctions, funded by German Federal Ministry for
Economic Affairs & Energy; Urban Mobility 2030 film
published and discussed at numerous events; Audi
Urban Future Award 2014 presented

Reduce energy and water consumption, waste and
emissions per unit produced across the Group by 25%
(baseline: 2010)

2018

19.3% reduction achieved by 2014 (cars and light
commercial vehicles)

Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from energy supplies to
production in Germany by 40% by 2020 (baseline: 2010)

2020

Braunschweig: new CHP pant came on stream
(–30,000 t CO2/year); Emden: new wind park in
factory grounds came on stream

Every new model generation to demonstrate better
environmental properties over the full life cycle than its
predecessor

ongoing

Group Environmental Strategy and Group
Environmental Principles Product implemented
consistently, as demonstrated in 2014 not least by
Environmental Commendations for e-Golf • and
Passat•

Increase efficiency at ­Volks­wa­gen dealerships in Germany
by reducing CO2 emissions by 25% by 2020 (baseline: 2014)

2020

Advised ­Volks­wa­gen dealerships by successively
providing customized quotations; some 160
dealerships advised to date, 175 more planned for
2015

137

B AC KG R O U N D

GRI INDEX
The present sustainability report takes account of the fourth edition (G4) of the reporting
­g uidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in line with the “Comprehensive” option. At
the same time, we set out how we implement the requirements of the United Nations Global
­Compact (UN GC) and of the German Sustainability Code (GSC). A full overview of the GRI Index
is ­available on the microsite. 4

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

Strategy and Analysis

G4-1

Statement from the most senior decision-maker

12 – 13

1

–

G4-2

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities concerning sustainability

14 – 15, 18, 22 – 23,
86 – 87, 134 – 137

2

15, 18

Organizational Profile

G4-3

Name of the organization

2

–

G4-4

Primary brands, products, and services

2, AR 21 – 46

AR 304

G4-5

Location of the organization’s headquarters

2

–

G4-6

Countries with significant operations

2 – 3, 6 – 7

–

G4-7

Nature of ownership and legal form

3, AR 52 – 53

AR 304

G4-8

Markets served

2 – 3, AR 21 – 46

AR 304

G4-9

Scale of the organization

2, AR 21 – 46

G4-10

Employees by employment type, gender and region

2 – 3, 120, 121

D

6

120

G4-11

Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements

56, 64, MS 26

D

3

–

G4-12

Description of the supply chain

42 – 43

42 – 43

G4-13

Significant changes during the reporting period

AR 52,53

AR 304

G4-14

Implementation of the precautionary principle

22 – 24, AR 160 – 174

G4-15

External initiatives that the organization endorses

20, 24, 26 – 27

3

–

G4-16

Significant memberships in industry and business associations

26 – 27, MS 14

1 – 10

–

AR 304

AR 304

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

G4-17

Entities included in the consolidated financial statements

AR 52 – 53

AR 304

G4-18

Process for defining the report content

15 – 17

15 – 17, 145

G4-19

Material Aspects identified

18

18, 145

G4-20

Aspect Boundaries within the organization

17 – 18

17 – 18, 145

G4-21

Aspect Boundaries outside the organization

18, 24

18, 145

138

GRI INDEX

A SSUR ANCE REPORT

CREDITS

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

G4-22

Restatemtents of information provided in previous reports

116

–

G4-23

Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries

116

–

Stakeholder Engagement

G4-24

Stakeholder groups engaged

24, MS 13

9

–

G4-25

Identification and selection of stakeholders

16, 23

9

–

G4-26

Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency

16, 24, MS 13

9

–

G4-27

Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response

24, MS 13

9

–

Report Profile

G4-28

Reporting period

U5

–

G4-29

Date of most recent previous report

U5

–

G4-30

Reporting cycle

U5

–

G4-31

Contact point for questions regarding the report

148

–

G4-32

“In accordance” option with GRI and and Content Index chosen

138 – 143

–

G4-33

External verification of the report

145 – 147

–

Governance

G4-34

Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest governance body

3, 20 – 21, AR 7 – 11

AR 304

G4-35

Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics

21 – 22, AR 118

AR 304

G4-36

Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, environmental and
­social topics

20 – 22, 46, 87, AR
118

AR 304

G4-37

Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance
body

AR 75, 93, 95

AR 304

G4-38

Composition of the highest governance body and its committees

21, AR 7 – 11, 54 – 58

AR 304

G4-39

Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body

AR 55 – 56, 70 – 73

AR 304

G4-40

Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its
­committees

AR 54 – 58

AR 304

G4-41

Process for avoiding conflicts of interest

AR 9, 55

AR 304

G4-42

Highest governance body's role concerning strategy and goals

AR 54 – 58

AR 304

G4-43

Measures taken concerning the highest governance body’s knowledge in
­sustainability issues

AR 54 – 58

AR 304

G4-44

Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance concerning
­sustainability

AR 54 – 58

7, 8

AR 304

G4-45

Highest governance body’s role concerning sustainability impacts, risks, and
­opportunities

20 – 22, AR 54 – 58

6

AR 304

G4-46

Highest governance body’s role concerning the effectiveness of the risk­ 
­management

22 – 23, AR 58

G4-47

Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of sustainability impacts,
risks, and opportunities

20 – 22, AR 54 – 58

G4-48

Highest committee that formally reviews and approves the sustainability report

21

–

G4-49

Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body

AR 54 – 58

AR 304

G4-50

Critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body

AR 7 – 11

G4-51

Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives

22, AR 59 – 69

G4-52

Process for determining remuneration

AR 59 – 69

G4-53

Stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration

AR 59 – 69

G4-54

Ratio of the highest annual total compensation to the median annual total
­compensation

62 – 63, AR 59 – 69

D

AR 304

G4-55

Ratio of percentage increase in the highest annual total compensation

62 – 63, AR 59 – 69

D

AR 304

139

AR 304

6

AR 304

AR 304

8

AR 304
AR 304
AR 304

B AC KG R O U N D

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

5

–

Ethics and Integrity

G4-56

Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior

20, 117

10

G4-57

Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior

47 – 48

10

–

G4-58

Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior

48, GB 56 – 57

10

–

Category: Economic

Management approach

34 – 36

–

ECONOMIC PERFORM ANCE

G4-EC1

Direct economic value created and distributed

75, 119

G4-EC2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change

14 – 15, 22, 86 – 87;
AR 145

18

G4-EC3

Coverage of benefit plan obligations

66, AR 240 – 247

AR 304

G4-EC4

Financial assistance received from governance

42, AR 213

AR 304

7

AR 304
AR 304

M ARKET PRESENCE

G4-EC5

Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage

62 – 63, MS 25, 26, 27

6

–

G4-EC6

Proportion of senior management hired from the local community

64, MS 26

6

–

INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS

G4-EC7

Infrastructure investments and services provided

40 – 41, 73 – 77

–

G4-EC8

Indirect economic impacts

19, 40 – 42

–

PROCUREMENT PR ACTICES

G4-EC9

Proportion of spending on local suppliers

40 – 43

D

–

Category: Environmental

Management approach

86 – 89

7, 8, 9

86 – 89

M ATERIAL S

G4-EN1

Materials used by weight or volume

42, 101

7, 8

11

–

G4-EN2

Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials

101, MS 50

8

12

–

7, 8

12

126

8

12

–

12

126

ENERGY

G4-EN3

Energy consumption within the organization

102, 126

G4-EN4

Energy consumption outside of the organization

–

G4-EN5

Energy intensity

126

8

G4-EN6

Reduction of energy consumption

100, 102 – 103

8, 9

–

G4-EN7

Reductions in energy requirements of products and services

95 – 100

8, 9

–

D

WATER

G4-EN8

Total water withdrawal by source

131 – 132

7, 8

G4-EN9

Water resources significantly affected

104

8

–

G4-EN10

Water recycled and reused

104 – 105, 131

8

–

D

12

131

BIODIVERSIT Y

G4-EN11

Operational sites in protected areas

133

8

–

G4-EN12

Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value

106 – 107, MS 53

8

–

G4-EN13

Habitats protected and restored

106 – 107, MS 53

8

–

G4-EN14

Affected endangered animal and plant species

MS 53

8

–

90 – 91, 116,
126 – 127

7, 8

–

EMISSIONS

G4-EN15

Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

140

13

126

GRI INDEX

A SSUR ANCE REPORT

CREDITS

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

G4-EN16

Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

116, 127

G4-EN17

Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)

93, 116, 128

G4-EN18

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

G4-EN19

Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

G4-EN20
G4-EN21

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

7, 8

13

127

7, 8

13

–

126 – 127

8

13

126 – 127

100, 102 – 103

8, 9

–

Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)

D

7, 8

–

NO X , SO X and other significant air emissions

129, 133

7, 8

–

EFFLUENTS AND WA STE

G4-EN22

Total water discharge by quality and destination

131 – 132

8

G4-EN23

Total weight of waste by type and disposal method

130

8

G4-EN24

Total number and volume of significant spills

D

8

–

G4-EN25

Handling of hazardous waste

–

8

–

G4-EN26

Water bodies ignificantly affected by discharges of water and runoff

133, MS 53

8

–

D

–
12

130

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

G4-EN27

Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services

89, 94 – 100, 101,
104, 109

7, 8, 9

10

–

G4-EN28

Reclaimed products and packaging

105

8

–

D

8

–

105 – 106, 128

8

–

132, AR 137

7, 8, 9

AR 304

COMPLIANCE

G4-EN29

Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations
TR ANSPORT

G4-EN30

Significant environmental impacts of transporting products
OVER ALL

G4-EN31

Environmental protection expenditures and investments
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT

G4-EN32

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria

43 – 45

D

8

42 – 46

G4-EN33

Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain

44 – 46

D

8

42 – 46

–

D

8

–

1,3,6

56 – 57

6

–

ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS

G4-EN34

Grievances about environmental impacts
Category: Social
Labor Practices and Decent Work

Management approach

56 – 57

EMPLOYMENT

G4-LA1

New employee hires and employee turnover

122

D

G4-LA2

Benefits provided to full-time employees

63,66

D

G4-LA3

Return to work and retention rates after parental leave

123

D

–
6

–

3

AR 304

L ABOR/M ANAGEMENT REL ATIONS

G4-LA4

Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes

64, AR 74 – 75, MS 28

–

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTHAND SAFET Y

G4-LA5

Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety committees

68

G4-LA6

Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities

122, 124

G4-LA7

Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases

67

G4-LA8

Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions

67

–
D

15

122, 124

16

–
–

TR AINING AND EDUC ATION

G4-LA9

Average hours of training

60 – 62

G4-LA10

Programs that support the continued employability of employees

57 – 62, 74

G4-LA11

Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development
reviews

63

141

D

6

D

6

16

–
–
–

B AC KG R O U N D

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

16

AR 304

DIVERSIT Y AND EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y

G4-LA12

Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by aspects of
­diversity

3, 69 – 72, 121, 123,
AR 55

D

6

62

D

6

EQUAL REMUNER ATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN

G4-LA13

Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men

–

SUPPLIER A SSESSMENT FOR L ABOR PR ACTICES

G4-LA14

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria

43 – 45

D

42 – 46

G4-LA15

Significant impacts for labor practices in the supply chain

44 – 46

D

42 – 46

–

D

–

L ABOR PR ACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS

G4-LA16

Formelle Beschwerden bezgl. Auswirkungen auf Arbeitspraktiken
Human Rights

Management approach

34 – 36, 56 – 57

1–6

–

INVESTMENT

G4-HR1

Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights
­clauses or screening

47

D

2

G4-HR2

Employee training on human rights issues

47

D

1

17

–
–

NON-DISCRIMINATION

G4-HR3

Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken

48, 72

6

16, 17

–

20, 42 – 46, 64

3

20, 42 – 46, 56

5

17

–

20, 42 – 46, 56

4

17

–

FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

G4-HR4

Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of
­association may be violated or at risk, and measures taken

–

CHILD L ABOR

G4-HR5

Operations and suppliers having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and
measures taken
FORCED OR COMPUL SORY L ABOR

G4-HR6

Operations and suppliers having significant risk for incidents of forced or
­compulsory labor, and measures taken
SECURIT Y PR ACTICES

G4-HR7

Percentage of security personnel trained in the field of human rights

47, MS 25, 26

D

1

–

20, 47

1

–

20, 47

1

–

INDIGENOUS RIGHTS

G4-HR8

Violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken
A SSESSMENT

G4-HR9

Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews
SUPPLIER HUM AN RIGHTS A SSESSMENT

G4-HR10

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria

43 – 45

D

2

G4-HR11

Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain

44 – 46

D

2

17

42 – 46
42 – 46

47

D

1

–

34 – 36, 73

10

–

HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS

G4-HR12

Grievances about human rights impacts
Society

Management approach
LOC AL COMMUNITIES

G4-SO1

Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,
­impact assessments, and development programs

23 – 24, 27, 41, 68, 73,
76 – 77, MS 29

1

18

–

G4-SO2

Operations with actual and potential negative impacts on local communities

88, 100, 104, 106

1

–
–

ANTI- CORRUPTION

G4-SO3

Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and risks
­identified

47 – 48

D

10

G4-SO4

Communication and training on anti-corruption

47

D

10

G4-SO5

Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

47 – 48

142

10

–
20

–

GRI INDEX

A SSUR ANCE REPORT

CREDITS

Disclosure of G4 Indicators

Reference

Omissions UN GC

GSC

Assurance

PUBLIC POLIC Y

G4-SO6

Total value of political contributions

75

10

–

ANTI- COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR

G4-SO7

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices

D

–

COMPLIANCE

G4-SO8

Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations

D

20

–

SUPPLIER A SSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIET Y

G4-SO9

Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society

43 – 45

D

G4-SO10

Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken

44 – 46, 47

D

2

–
–

47

D

2, 3

–

1, 8  

AR 304

GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIET Y

G4-SO11

Number of grievances about impacts on society
Product Responsibility

Management approach

37 – 40, AR 141

CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFET Y

G4-PR1

Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and
­safety impacts are assessed

35, 37 – 39

–

G4-PR2

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the
health and safety impacts of products and services

38 – 39, AR 170 – 172

AR 304

PRODUCT AND SERVICE L ABELING

G4-PR3

Principles/ procedures for product and service information and labelling

39 – 40, 93 – 95, 108

–

G4-PR4

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning
product and service information and labeling

D

–

G4-PR5

Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction

39

–

M ARKETING COMMUNIC ATIONS

G4-PR6

Sale of banned or disputed products

D

–

G4-PR7

Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning
marketing communications

AR 170 – 172

AR 304

D

–

D

–

CUSTOMER PRIVAC Y

G4-PR8

Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy
COMPLIANCE

G4-PR9

Significant fines concerning the provision and use of products and services

Key:
AR = 2014 Annual Report

UN GC = United Nations Global Compact

MS = 2014 Sustainability Report Microsite

GSC = German Sustainability Code

D = Direct Answer (online-index)

143

B AC KG R O U N D

V V CO N S U M P T I O N A N D E M I S S I O N DATA
CO2 emissions
(g/km)

Fuel consumption (l/100 km)

Model
Audi A6 2.0T TDI ultra

Output kW (PS)

urban

extraurban

combined

combined

114 (190)

5.2

3.9

4.4

114

SEAT Leon ST 1.4 TGI

81 (110)

4.5 kg

2.9 kg

3.5 kg

96

ŠKODA Citigo G- TEC

50 (68)

3.6 kg

2.5 kg

2.9 kg

79

­Volks­wa­gen Golf VII TSI 1,2l*

77 (105)

5.9 – 5.6

4.4 – 4.3

4.9 – 4.8

114 – 112

­Volks­wa­gen Golf VII TSI 1,4l*

90 (122)

6.6 – 6.2

4.3

5.2 – 5.0

120 – 116

­Volks­wa­gen Golf VII TDI 1,6l*

77 (105)

4.6

3.5 – 3.3

3.9 – 3.8

102 – 99

­Volks­wa­gen Golf VII TDI 2,0l*

110 (150)

5.2 – 5.0

4.0 – 3.6

4.4 – 4.1

117 – 106

81 (110)

3.8

3.0

­Volks­wa­gen Golf BlueMotion 1.6 TDI
Audi A3
Audi A3 Sportback

3.2

85

8.3 – 1.5

194 – 35

6.5 – 3.3

149 – 88

Audi A3 Sportback e-tron

1.5 – 1.7/114.0 – 124.0 Wh

35

Audi A3 Sportback g-tron

5.2/3.3 kg

120 – 92

Audi A6

9.6 – 4.2

223 – 109

Audi Q7

10.7 – 7.2

249 – 189

Audi TT

7.3 – 4.2

169 – 110

Audi TT Coupé

6.4 – 4.2

149 – 110
246

Bentley Continental GT V8

10.6

Bugatti Veyron Vitesse

23.1

539

Lamborghini Aventador Roadster

16.0

370

Porsche Cayenne S E-Hybrid
Porsche Macan
Porsche 918 Spyder Plug-in-Hybrid
Porsche Panamera SE -Hybrid 3
Scania G 410
SEAT Mii Ecofuel

3.4/20.8 kWh

79

9.2 – 6.1

216 – 159

3.1 – 3.0/12.7 kWh

72 – 70

3.1

71

23.29

734

2.9

79

SEAT Leon ST

6.7 – 3.3

150 – 87

SEAT Leon

6.6 – 3.3

154 – 87

SEAT Ibiza

5.9 – 3.4

139 – 89

ŠKODA Octavia Greenline
ŠKODA Fabia

­Volks­wa­gen Caddy EcoFuel
­Volks­wa­gen eco up!
­Volks­wa­gen e-Golf

3.2

85

4.8 – 3.4

110 – 88

8.8 – 8.7

157 – 156

4.4 m³ (2.9 kg)

79

12.7 kWh

0

1.7 – 1.5/12.4 – 11.4 kWh

39 – 35

­Volks­wa­gen Golf Variant CNG

5.4 – 5.2

127 – 122

Golf Variant TGI BlueMotion

5.3 – 5.1

124 – 119

­Volks­wa­gen Golf Sportsvan

5.5 – 3.6

126 – 95

­Volks­wa­gen Golf GTE

­Volks­wa­gen e-up!

11.7 kWh

0

­Volks­wa­gen Passat

6.2 – 4.1

143 – 106

­Volks­wa­gen Passat GTE

1.7 – 1.6

39 – 37

­Volks­wa­gen Passat Variant

7.1 – 4.1

146 – 107

­Volks­wa­gen Polo

6.0 – 3.4

139 – 82

­Volks­wa­gen Polo TDI BlueMotion

3.1

82

­Volks­wa­gen Polo TSI BlueMotion

4.1

94

­Volks­wa­gen Tiguan

8.6 – 5.3

199 – 138

­Volks­wa­gen Touareg

9.1 – 6.6

239 – 143

0.9/7.2 kWh

21

­Volks­wa­gen XL1
This table shows the consumption and emission data for all models mentioned in this report.

144

GRI INDEX

ASSUR ANCE REPORT

CREDITS

INDEPENDENT ASSUR ANCE REPORT

To ­Volks­w a ­gen AG , Wolfsburg
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the description of the necessary
materiality analysis for a sustainability report and selected issues of the Corporate Responsibility
­Report 2014 of the ­Volks­w a ­gen AG , Wolfsburg, (hereinafter: the Company), for the business year from
January, 1st to December, 31st 2014.1 The sustainability information, which were selected by the
­Company and reviewed by us, are marked with the following symbols (
) in the Sustainability
Report.

Management’s Responsibility
>> The company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the accurate preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 of
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which
are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing
and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the report.

Our Independence and Quality Control
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for
­P rofessional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants ( IESBA -­
Codex), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, pro-fessional competence
and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior.
The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Practitioner’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether anything has
come to our attention that causes us to believe that:
>> the marked ( ) description of the materiality analysis is necessary for a sustainability report to determine its content and the boundaries of its aspects is not in accordance with the criteria “Stakeholder
Inclusiveness”, “Sustainability Context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” of the GRI ’s Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and that they were not used during the Sustainability Report’s preparation,
>> the management approaches marked with (
and ) in the Sustainability Report are not in accordance with the requirements of the standard disclosures G4- DMA of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 or that
>> the quantitative information marked with ( and ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report for
the business year 2014 , is in material aspects not in accordance with the criteria “Completeness”,
“Comparability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”, “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI ’s Sustainability
­Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4.

	Our engagement applies to the German paper version of the Sustainability- Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance
Report issued in German language - the German text is au-thoritative.

1

145

B AC KG R O U N D

It was not part of our engagement to review any additional information outside the scope of the given
­i nformation or statements.
We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of the sustainability
management and the sustainability reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
( ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the
assurance engagement, under consideration of materiality, in order to provide our conclusion with limited assurance.
In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a
­r easonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures concerning the
­m ateriality analysis, management approaches and key data – for the aspects that are marked by a
check (
) in the Sustainability Report.
>> Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the report regarding the process to prepare
the reporting of sustainability information and the underlying internal control system;
>> Understanding the Company regarding to its sustainability organizational structure, stakeholder
­d ialogue and development process of the sustainability program;
>> Recording of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, validation and aggregation of sustainability data and their documentation on a sample basis;
>> Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating selected data at:
>> Skoda Auto a.s., Mladá Boleslav, Czech Republic;
>> ­Volks­w a­gen do Brasil Indústria de Veículos Automotores Ltda., Anchieta, Brazil;
>> FAW-­Volks­w a­gen Automotive Company Ltd., Changchun, China
>> ­Volks­w a­gen Group China, Peking, China
>> Analytical procedures on relevant data;
>> Comparison of corresponding data in the Company‘s Consolidated Financial Statements 2014;
>> Gaining further evidence for selected data of the report through inspection of internal documents,
­contracts and invoices.

Conclusion
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe
that
>> the marked ( ) description of the materiality analysis, which is necessary for a sustainability report to
­determine its content and the boundaries of its aspects, is not in accordance with the criteria “Stakeholder
Inclusiveness”, “Sustainability Context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” of the GRI ’s Sustainability
­Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and that they were not used during the report’s preparation,
>> the management approaches marked with (
) i­ n the Sustainability Report are not in accordance
with the requirements of the standard disclosures G4- DMA of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines
Vol. 4 or that
>> the quantitative information marked with ( and ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report for
the ­business year 2014 is in material aspects not in accordance with the criteria “Completeness”,
“Com­parability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”, “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI ’s Sustainability
­Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4.

146

GRI INDEX

ASSUR ANCE REPORT

CREDITS

Emphasis of Matter - Recommendations
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability reporting:
>> For a materiality analysis according to the G4 standard it is necessary to further improve the analysis of
consequences for the defined topics in order to enable a stronger focus on the material aspects.
Without limiting the above conclusion, we advise the following recommendations for further improvement of the selected organizational management approaches:
>> More structured presentation of the material management approaches in the report.
Without limiting the above conclusion, we advise the following recommendations for further improvement of the selected organizational key figures:
>> Further standardization and formalization of processes and controls for data collection
>> Explicit differentiation between the ­Volks­w a­gen Group and the ­Volks­w a­gen brand in the Sustainability
Report
>> Further increase of the coverage of key figures that are used for presenting the V
­ olks­w a­gen Group’s
­perspective
Hannover, 7th April, 2015

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Frank Hübner 				
Michael Conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer 				Wirtschaftsprüfer

147

B AC KG R O U N D

C O N TA C T S A N D C R E D I T S

Publisher

Ordering a Copy of this Report

­Volks­wa­gen Aktiengesellschaft
Berliner Ring 2
38440 Wolfsburg
Germany

Online at: www.­volks­wa­genag.com/sustainability
or from V
­ olks­wa­gen Distributionsservice: Postfach 14 50,
33762 Versmold, Germany
Group Sustainability Report 2014:
Art.-Nr. 515.1245.01.18
Summary, Group Sustainability Report 2014:
Art.-Nr. 515.1245.02.18

Group Research Environment, Strategy and Mobility
Dr. Hans-Jürgen Stauss
Group External and Governmental Relations,
Sustainability & Political Communication
Prof. Dr. Gerhard Prätorius

Disclaimer
At the brands of the ­Volks­wa­gen Group, work on all types and models never ceases, so please allow for the fact that changes in design, equipment and technical specifications may be made at any
time. Consequently, the data and descriptions in this report cannot give rise to claims of any kind.

info@­volks­wa­gen-nachhaltigkeit.de

Editing
­Volks­wa­gen Aktiengesellschaft

Printed by
Project Management

Kunst- und Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen

Dr. Daniel-Sascha Roth
Group Research Environment, Strategy and Mobility

The CO2 emissions associated with printing this Sustainability
­Report in the amount of 9,068 kilograms have been offset.

Concept, Copy and Design
akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, München
3st kommunikation, Mainz
­Volks­wa­gen Aktiengesellschaft

Printed on

Photos

V V YO U R F E E D B AC K

Mundoplus, Berberich Papier

gettyimages.com (C3)
shutterstock.com (C3, p. 20)
Hartmut Nägele (C4, p. 3)
Andreas Mader (C4, p. 28)
NetCarShow.com (p. 8)
Arul Gopalan (p. 40)
Marcus Pietrek (p. 112)
­Volks­wa­gen Group and its brands

In the interests of improving and advancing our commitment to
sustainability, we would be delighted to receive your feedback on
our sustainability report. You can send us your views online at:
sustainabilityreport2014.­volks­wa­genag.com/feedback

English Translation
Bauer-Boothroyd Übersetzungen, Schorndorf

carbon neutral

Date of Publication

natureOffice.com | DE-149-413293

Date of publication: May 5, 2015
© ­Volks­wa­gen Aktiengesellschaft
Subject to misprints and errors.

print production

148

ABOUT THIS REPORT

The Volkswagen Group’s Sustainability Report has been published
annually since 2011. This report contains information about the
Group’s sustainability activities in the 2014 financial year (January
1 to December 31, 2014). The report, which is available in German
and English, went to press on January 31, 2015. The next Group
Sustainability Report will be published in the second quarter of
2016.
The Strategy chapter presents the fundamentals of the Group’s
strategy for implementing sustainable development across all its
brands. The Economy, People and Environment chapters set out
our management approach in each case before outlining how the
various aspects of these topics are implemented. The key Groupwide indicators and the overarching corporate sustainability
roadmap are described in the Indicators and Goals chapter. Significant changes in holdings or in the data acquisition process are
described on pages 5 and 116. True to the character of a progress
report we aim to focus on the essentials while at the same time communicating a balanced picture of our activities that takes account
of all Group brands and companies. Audi, MAN, Porsche, Scania
and ŠKODA publish their own sustainability reports, either annually or at two-year intervals.

FU N DA M E N TA L S
This report was drawn up in accordance with the fourth generation
of guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) with the
aid of an IT system that is to be used for Group-wide data acquisition
and control activities, as well as for stakeholder management within
the Group. Important guidance in terms of content was provided by
the questionnaires and appraisals of sustainability-oriented rating
agencies and RobecoSAM in particular. We also took our lead from
Stakeholder Engagement Standard AA1000.
To identify material topics for the Volkswagen Group resulting from
the global challenges, we drew upon the findings of the Volkswagen
Group’s Stakeholder Panel which has been in place for many years
now, as well as on the latest comprehensive stakeholder surveys conducted by Group companies Audi, MAN, Porsche and Volkswagen
Financial Services. The resultant materiality matrix (see page 17)
was validated by the Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering
Group. The present report takes account not only of the recommendations of the Stakeholder Panel, following its evaluation of the
2013 Group Sustainability Report (see pages 25 – 26), but also of the
advice provided by the auditors.

implementation of the relevant criteria for the Communication on
Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. The GRI Content
Index also documents compliance with the German Sustainability
Code.

A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M AT I O N
The contents of this report are closely interlinked with further
information published on a dedicated report microsite at
sustainabilityreport2014.volkswa genag.com where all the copy
and graphics in this report plus additional documents can be
found (see page U6 – U7 for a list of numbered links). At all points
in the report where more in-depth information is available online, numbered symbols appear in the body copy. On the microsite
a prominently displayed list of links showing the relevant numbers permits rapid access to the documents. The latest news on
sustainability at the Volkswa gen Group can be found on the Group
portal, the contents of which have been brought into line with the
2014 report: www.volkswa genag.com/sustainability

F R A M E O F R E F E R E N CE
The information in this report relates to the Volkswa gen Group as
a whole. If any information relates to individual Group brands
only, this is clearly indicated in the copy.

F O RWA R D - L O O K I N G STAT E M E N T S
This report contains forward-looking statements on the development of the Volkswa gen Group and its companies as well as on economic and political developments. These statements are assumptions that we based on all the information available to us at the
time of reporting. If the assumptions made fail to materialize or
additional risks occur, then the actual results, development and
performance of the Group may differ from the forecasts given. The
Volkswa gen Group therefore assumes no liability for the forward-looking statements presented here.

STA N DA R D S
This report has been approved by the Board of Management of
Volkswa gen Aktiengesellschaft and verified by a firm of auditors
(see pages 145 – 147). The GRI has confirmed the location of the
indicators G4-17 to G4-27 through its Materiality Disclosure
Service (see page 138). Compliance with the GRI indicators is
shown in the GRI Content Index on pages 138 – 143, as is the

All contents of this report, further information,
brand portraits and links to the brands can be found
on the microsite at:
sustainabilityreport2014.volkswagenag.com

SUPPLEMENTARY INFOR M ATION

S U P P L E M E N TA R Y I N F O R M AT I O N
The Volkswa gen Sustainability Report 2014 microsite provides access to all links at
sustainabilityreport2014.volkswa genag.com. There, under the relevant number, you will find
supplementary information to the contents of this report. You will also find an overview of the
brands and links to their sustainability reports and information.

Topic

Content

Type of information

Number

Group development 2014

Online Annual Report

Link

1

Brands and companies

Volkswagen online brand portal

Link

2

Associated companies

Link

3

GRI index

Table

4

Materiality analysis

Graphic

5

Media analysis

Document

6

Group values

Document

7

Model of Sustainable Development

Document

8

Code of Conduct

Document

Principles

Board remuneration

Link

Risk management

Risks and opportunities in the management report

Link

11

Volkswagen in the Transparency Register

Link

12

List of stakeholder dialogues

Table

13

Group memberships

Table

14

Guidelines for political lobbying

Document

15

Volkswagen Group website

Link

16

Stakeholder panel and evaluation

Document

17

Volkswagen Group requirements regarding sustainability
in its relationships with business partners

Document

18

G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N

Reporting in line with GRI

S T R AT E G Y

Stakeholder management

9
10

E CO N O MY

Taxes and duties policy

Document

19

Principles

Brochure on the shift to renewables

Brochure

20

Product Responsibility

Road safety at ŠKODA

Link

21

Supplier management

Sustainability in Supplier Relations brochure

Brochure

22

Training, cooperations, activities

Document

23

Compliance in the Annual Report

Link

24

Compliance

Topic

Content

Type of information

Number

Social Charter

Document

25

Charter on Labour Relations

Document

26

Principles

Charter on Temporary Work

Document

27

Participation

Stimmungsbarometer employee opinion survey

Document

28

Social responsibility

CSR worldwide

Project map

29

Group Environmental Policy

Document

30

Group Environmental Principles Locations/Production

Document

31

Group Environmental Principles Product

Document

32

Mission Statement on Biodiversity

Document

33

Volkswagen brand environmental statement

Document

34

ISO TR 14062 certificates

Document

35

Overview of environmentally certified locations

Table

36

Think Blue.

Link

37

Audi ultra

Link

38

Bentley Environmental Factory

Link

39

Lamborghini environmental commitment

Link

40

MAN 's Climate Strategy

Link

41

Porsche environmental commitment

Link

42

Scania Ecolution by Scania

Link

43

SEAT Ecomotive

Link

44

ŠKODA GreenFuture

Link

45

“Resource Effiency” brochure

Document

46

Environmental Goals of Technical Development

Document

47

Life Cycle Assessments and Environmental Commendations

Document

48

Think Blue. Factory.

Link

49

Secondary materials

Document

50

Renewable raw materials

Document

51

Recycling

Link

52

Engagement for biodiversity

Document

53

Think Blue. Nature.

Document

54

Urban Mobility 2030

Film

55

Think Blue. Carsharing.

Document

56

PEOPLE

ENVIRONMENT

Principles
Product planning and development

Production and logistics
Sales, use and recycling

VO L KSWAG E N AG .CO M

