Responsibility
and Change
Sustainability Report 2016

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN NACHHALTIGKEITSBERICHT 2016

Content

Page 06 > LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDER
Page 01 > GROUP

Page 05 > STRATEGY

Page 31 > ECONOMY
Page 54 > PEOPLE
Page 74 > ENVIRONMENT

Page 101 > FACTS AND FIGURES
Page 131 > BRANDS

Page 166 > REGIONS
Page 190 > IMPRINT

This publication is an abridged version of our
online Sustainability Report 2016. To read the report in full,
please visit: sustainabilityreport2016.volkswagenag.com

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Group

Group
12 Brands, 120 Locations
–
One Group
With 12 brands, the Volkswagen Group – based in Wolfsburg, Germany – is one of the world’s leading automobile
manufacturers and the largest in Europe. In 2016, the Group – including Chinese joint ventures – delivered a total of
10,296,997 cars and commercial vehicles to customers. This equated to 11.9% of the global passenger car market. The
Group’s sales revenue totaled €217,267 million in 2016, while earnings after tax came to €5,379 million. More than
620,000 employees produce an average of 43,000 vehicles per working day at 120 manufacturing locations on four continents, or are involved in providing mobility-related services.
STRUCTURE
tions 285 and 313 of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code), which can be accessed at www.volkswagen.com/en/ir
and forms part of the annual financial statements.

Volkswagen AG is the parent company of the Volkswagen Group.
It develops vehicles and components for the Group’s brands, but
also produces and sells vehicles, in particular passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles from the Volkswagen Passenger Cars and
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands. In its function as parent
company, Volkswagen AG holds direct or indirect interests in AUDI
AG, SEAT S. A., ŠKODA AUTO a. s., Dr. Ing. h. c. F. Porsche AG, Scania AB,
MAN SE, Volkswagen Financial Services AG and a large number of
other companies in Germany and abroad. More detailed disclosures
are contained in the list of shareholdings in accordance with sec-

Volkswagen AG is a vertically integrated energy company within
the meaning of section 3 para. 38 of the Energiewirtschaftsgesetz
(EnWG – German Energy Industry Act) and is consequently subject
to the provisions of the EnWG. In the electricity sector, Volkswagen
AG performs electricity generation, sales and distribution together
with a Group subsidiary.

Matthias Müller
Chairman of the Board of
Management of Volkswagen
Aktiengesellschaft

Dr. rer. soc. Karlheinz Blessing
Human Resources and
Organization

Dr.-Ing. Herbert Diess
Chairman of the Brand Board
of Management of Volkswagen
Passenger Cars

Dr. rer. pol. h. c.
Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz
Procurement

Andreas Renschler
Commercial Vehicles

Prof. Rupert Stadler
Chairman of the Board of
Management of AUDI AG

Hiltrud Dorothea Werner
Integrity and Legal Affairs
(since February 1, 2017)

Frank Witter
Finance and Controlling

Volkswagen AG’s Board of Management is the body ultimately responsible for managing the Group. The Supervisory Board appoints,
monitors and advises the Board of Management, and is directly
consulted on decisions of fundamental significance for the Company.
1

Prof. Dr. rer. pol. Dr.-Ing. E. h.
Jochem Heizmann
China

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Group

Shareholder Structure

Employees by Continent

at December 31, 2016 in % of voting capital

in % at December 31, 2016

German institutional
investors 2.3

Africa 1

Porsche Automobil
Holding SE 30.8

America 9

State of Lower
Saxony 11.8

Asia/Australia 16
Qatar Holding LLC 14.6

Foreign institutional
investors 22.5
Rest of Europe 29

Private shareholders/
Others 18.1

Group Key Figures

2

Germany 45

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Group

PRODUCTS
the MAN and Scania brands is managed and coordinated under the
umbrella of Volkswagen Truck & Bus GmbH. The commercial vehicles
portfolio ranges from pickups to heavy trucks and buses. Power
Engineering manufactures large-bore diesel engines and special gear
units, among other things. A wide array of financial services, which
will be gradually expanded to include mobility services rounds off
the Company’s portfolio. With its brands, the Volkswagen Group has
a presence in all relevant markets around the world, with Western
Europe, China, the USA, Brazil, Mexico and Turkey currently representing its key sales markets.

The Volkswagen Group is one of the leading multibrand groups in
the automotive industry. The Company’s business activities comprise
the Automotive and Financial Services divisions. All brands in the
Auto­motive Division – with the exception of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands – are legally
inde­pendent separate companies. The business activities of the various
companies in the Volkswagen Group focus on developing, producing
and selling passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, trucks and buses.
The product portfolio of the Passenger Cars Business Area ranges
from motorcycles to fuel-efficient small cars and luxury vehicles. In
the Commercial Vehicles Business Area, the collaboration between

LOCATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
duction sites. North America (five) has added another site, and in
South America (nine), the number of sites remained unchanged in
the reporting period. The Group has four production sites in Africa.

The Volkswagen Group’s production network comprised 120 produc­
tion sites at the end of the reporting year. Europe remains the heart
of our production activities, with 71 facilities that manufacture vehicles and components, 28 of them in Germany alone. The significance
of the Asia-Pacific region continues to grow, with a total of 31 pro­­-

MARKETS
Group purchased goods and services in the amount of €166.5 billion.
This includes purchasing figures for the Chinese joint-venture companies.

Despite difficult economic conditions in 2016, the Group sold
10,391,113 (2015: 10,009,605) vehicles to dealers. The Group’s share
of the global passenger car market currently stands at 11.9%. The
Group maintained its strong competitive position in the reporting
period thank to its wide range of attractive and environmentally
friendly models. Worldwide, for the manufacture of its products, the

Further details on the Group’s development, holdings and changes
affecting production locations or activities can be found here.

3

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Group

THE VOLKSWAGEN VALUE CHAIN

Research & Development
Year for year, the Volkswagen Group invests more in research and development
than any other company in the world, laying the foundations for new models
and innovative concepts with which to master the challenges of the future:
digitization, networking and electric mobility.

The Volkswagen Group employs
48,063 people
in Research & Development

Procurement
Every year, the Volkswagen Group purchases a wide range of raw materials, components and other goods. A sustainable supply chain and environmentally compatible
transportation solutions form an indispensable part of demonstrating comprehensive responsibility for human rights, as well as a commitment to the environment
and to the battle against corruption.

The annual
procurement volume
comes to 166.5 Bn. €

Production
Every working day, the Volkswagen Group manufactures an average of 43,000 vehicles. As we do so, efficient production ranks alongside employee health and safety as
our core goal. New concepts help prepare employees for the future, covering every
step from vocational education and training onwards.

120
production locations
on four continents (2016)

Marketing & Sales
The Volkswagen Group markets its vehicles in 153 countries. Around the world,
comfort and safety are considered the key customer requirements. We continuously
reduce the fuel consumption of our models and offer alternative mobility services.

>10.2 million
vehicles sold worldwide (2016)

After-Sales & Financial Services
Service provision includes supporting dealerships to ensure they can provide quality
advice and maintenance; managing the original parts business; and providing
innovative vehicle-related financial services. Fuel-economy driver training courses
play an effective part in cutting fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions.

3,412
people attended Driving Experience
eco-driving coursese (2016)

Recycling
Recycling makes a key contribution to reducing our products’ impact on the
environment and conserving resources. It is not just a matter of recycling vehicles
at the end of their service life – on the contrary, even at the development stage
for new vehicles, we pay attention to the recyclability of the required materials,
the use of high-quality recycled material and the avoidance of pollutants. At
the same time, we factor in aspects of the use phase, such as the treatment and
disposal of service fluids or high-wear components.

End-of-life vehicles are
85% recycled
and
95% recovered

4

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our Objective – To Provide Sustainable Mobility

Strategy
Our Objective –
To Provide Sustainable Mobility
As one of the world’s largest industrial corporations, our Group bears a special social responsibility. We intend to put our
creative powers to good use for the benefit of people and the environment. Every year we produce more than 10 million
vehicles. This gives rise to positive effects such as new jobs, regional prosperity and individual opportunities for participation – but also to negative impacts such as emissions and resource consumption. In view of the growing trend toward
digitalization, we will in the future be faced with new issues – for example, what we do with our customers’ data, how
we ensure that they are secure and protected at all times, and what legal and ethical problems are raised by automated
driving. It is our task to ensure responsible and efficient production, and to make mobility not only as safe, convenient
and environmentally compatible as possible, but at the same time affordable for large numbers of people. After all, individual mobility remains a basic human need, and fulfilling this need is the main mission of our Group.
With its future program TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, the Volkswagen Group has launched the biggest change process in
its history, laying the foundations for lasting success in tomorrow’s world of mobility and for its evolution into a globally
leading provider of sustainable mobility.

5

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Letter to our Stakeholders

Letter to our Stakeholders
Dear Readers and Colleagues,
These are not normal times for Volkswagen. You can even sense this
in the timing of our reports – our sustainability report for 2015 only
appeared toward the end of November 2016.

such as sustainable mobility, environmental protection and the
future of work. The council has already started its activities and is in
the process of developing its first projects. We stay in close contact
with council members and look forward to the many ideas they will
generate.

But now we are back on schedule, so to speak. We are pleased to
present our report for 2016 in good time for our annual general meeting. However, this does not mean that everything is back to normal
at o
­ ur Company. There is no question that in terms of corporate
res­ponsibility, dealing with the repercussions of the diesel crisis is still
one of our top priorities. Each of the key developments over the past
12 months has been given its own dedicated chapter in this report.

“We are undergoing a profound
and challenging – yet at the same
time, extraordinarily exciting –
transformation.”

“This makes it all the more essential
for us to establish a solid framework of
values, in the form of our renewed
commitment to sustainable, responsible
business practices.”

Over the last year, Volkswagen also substantially extended the
­Company’s voluntary commitment to behave ethically and with
integrity. One outcome of this was the creation of a new position
on our Board of Management. Hiltrud Werner, an outstanding
expert and former head of Group Internal Audit, has taken on the
challenging role of Board Member for Integrity and Legal Affairs
following the departure of Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt.

Corporate responsibility is also about running our business prudently
and successfully. Together with our entire workforce, we can be
proud that in an extremely challenging year, we met and exceeded
our operational objectives. At the same time, in mid-2016, we introduced our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 program. This represents our
vision for the future, guiding our actions, defining specific targets
and detailing how we should achieve them. We intend to become a
world-leading provider of sustainable mobility. Low-emission drive
technologies; smart mobility services; innovative, safe solutions for
autonomous driving – these are among the ambitious plans we are
working on right now as we look ahead to the future. You will find
more details in this report.

The Volkswagen Group is changing, just as the automotive industry
as a whole is changing. As we see it, developments over the next
ten years will be even more far-reaching than the changes we have
seen in the last 100 years. This makes it all the more essential for us
to establish a solid framework of values, in the form of our renewed
commitment to sustainable, responsible business practices.

“Low-emission drive technologies;
smart mobility services; innovative, safe
solutions for autonomous driving –
these are among the ambitious plans
we are working on right now as we look
ahead to the future.”

We are undergoing a profound and challenging – yet at the same
time, extraordinarily exciting – transformation. This in turn poses
an important question: how do we want to work together in the future? This is one of the issues addressed in our TOGETHER strategy,
in which we launch a transformation of our corporate culture that
may be unique in the history of Volkswagen. This will result in flatter
hierarchies, decentralized decision-making and an open, collaborative style of working that explicitly encourages constructive criticism,
while simultaneously encouraging all our employees to think and
act like responsible entrepreneurs. As we pursue this radical transformation, our managers bear special responsibility – they must lead
by example and work closely with their teams to bring about this
sweeping cultural change.

This report is an expression of this commitment. In a spirit of transparency, accountability and comparability, the statements, figures
and data included in this report follow the guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) of the United Nations. The report also represents our Communication on Progress under the United Nations Global Compact
(UNGC).
We look forward to receiving your suggestions and feedback,

When we talk about openness, we also mean that we intend to pay
even greater attention to how our stakeholders, as well as outside
experts, view our work. With this aim in mind, we set up our Group
Sustainability Council in late 2016. Nine respected experts from the
worlds of politics, research and NGOs are now advising us on issues

M. Müller			
6

B. Osterloh

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

Our approach
The automotive world is undergoing a profound transformation,
and automated driving, e-mobility and connected vehicle concepts
are the dominant trends. Technological changes are influencing
customer needs and business models; new competitors are entering
the market from other industries; shorter innovation cycles and the
establishment of new core competencies are requiring ever more
capital; stricter emission standards and increased market volatility
are leading to more complex underlying conditions. All this poses
new challenges for us as a vehicle manufacturer.

For Volkswagen, sustainability means pursuing economic, social
and ecological objectives simultaneously and with equal energy. It
is our aim to create lasting values, offer good working conditions,
and conserve resources and the environment. When it comes to the
diesel crisis, we have failed to live up to our own standards in several
areas. The irregularities in the handling of emissions tests contradict e
­ verything that we stand for. We regret this immensely and are
aware that we have let our stakeholders down. We will do everything in our power to prevent incidents of this kind from reoccurring,
and are fully committed to re-embracing our standards and winning
back public trust. We continue to apply our sustainability concept
with the aim of ensuring that opportunities and risks associated
with our environmental, social and governance activities are identified as early as possible at every stage of the value creation process.
In keeping with this aim, we are determined that our corporate
social responsibility activities will have a lasting, positive impact on
the Company’s value and reputation.

Against this backdrop, in June 2016 the Volkswagen Group Board
of Management launched our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 program
for the future, with the full approval of the Supervisory Board. It is
our aim to play a decisive role in shaping the mobility not just of
today, but of tomorrow as well. This is why we are repositioning our
Company with the vision of becoming one of the world’s leading
providers of sustainable mobility. Our future program will make the
Volkswagen Group more focused, efficient, innovative and sustainable – bringing us closer to our customers and setting us on a steady
course of profitable growth.

The Volkswagen Group of the Future

EXCITED
CUSTOMERS

MISSION
We offer tailor-made mobility
solutions to our customers

VISION
“We are a globally
leading provider of
sustainable mobility”

We serve our customers’
diverse needs with a portfolio
of strong brands

EXCELLENT
EMPLOYER

We assume responsibility
regarding the environment,
safety and social issues
We act with integrity and
build on reliability, quality and
passion as the foundation
for our work

SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH

ROLE MODEL FOR
ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY
AND INTEGRITY

7

COMPETITIVE
PROFITABILITY

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

TOGETHER – STRATEGY 2025
We know that growth can only take place hand in hand with social
responsibility and environmental protection. TOGETHER – Strategy
2025 effectively bridges the conceptual gap between sustainability
and business objectives. It creates the framework and defines the
key building blocks for the future evolution of the Group, with its
strong brands, international production sites and skilled, dedicated workforce. The Code of Collaboration formulated as part of our
future program is the foundation on which the Group strategy rests.
The Code describes how collaboration is to take place within the
Group and between individuals in their daily work. Its core values
are encapsulated in the terms “open and honest”, “uncomplicated”,
“without prejudice”, “on an equal footing” and “for one another”.
The change process is complemented by the corresponding strategies of the brands and functions.

e-Golf (100 kW/136 PS). Electrical consumption in kWh/100 km: 12.7 (combined),
CO2 emissions in g/km: 0 (combined), efficiency class: A+.

TRANSFORM
CORE BUSINESS

BUILD
MOBILITY SOLUTIONS
BUSINESS

Sharpen positioning of brands
Develop successful vehicle and drivetrain portfolio

Establish
mobility solutions
business

Partner with regional players to win in economy segment
Streamline modular architectures

Develop and expand
attractive and profitable
smart mobility offering

Implement model line organization
Realign components business
Develop battery technology as new core competency
Develop self-driving system for autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence
Develop best-in-class user experience across brands and customer touchpoints

Drive digital transformation

STRENGTHEN
INNOVATION POWER

Create organisation 4.0

8

SECURE FUNDING

Improve operational
excellence
Optimize business
portfolio
Integrate strategy and
planning process

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

Second key building block: establishing a mobility solutions business

The new Group strategy comprises a raft of far-reaching strategic decisions and specific initiatives essentially aimed at safeguarding the
Group’s long-term future and generating profitable growth. A total
of 16 strategic Group initiatives are assigned to the four key building
blocks of the program, which are: comprehensively transforming
our core automotive business; establishing a new mobility solutions
business; strengthening the Group’s innovative power; and securely
funding our investments.

The second key building block of the new Group strategy is the new
cross-brand mobility solutions business, in which we are setting up
mobility services. In this context, we have established MOIA, a new
business unit which will focus on ride hailing. Subsequently, we are
aiming to develop or acquire further attractive and profitable services that are tailored to customer requirements, such as robotaxis,
carsharing and on-demand transport for the logistics industry. To
achieve this, we will rely to a greater extent than previously on partnerships, acquisitions and venture capital investments. Investment
selection will be managed centrally so as to generate maximum
value for the Group and its brands.

First key building block: transforming our core business
Developing, building and selling vehicles will remain essential for
the Volkswagen Group going forward. However, there will be far-­
reaching and lasting changes to this business. That is why we are
profoundly restructuring our core business to face this new era of
mobility.

MOIA – Rethinking mobility

SEDRIC – Automated driving at the touch of a button

The automotive industry is undergoing rapid change. Alongside the traditional automotive business, innovative, digitally
connected mobility services promise a high growth dynamic.
Together with newly founded company MOIA, Volkswagen is
laying the foundations for sustained success in tomorrow’s
world of mobility throughout the Group and across all brands.
Individual mobility for everyone – this is what MOIA stands
for. Convenient, at the touch of a button, at affordable prices
and without having to own your own car. As a first step, the
app-based ride-hailing business sector shows the greatest
potential for MOIA. The Volkswagen Group has already
opened the way for new mobility concepts with its stake in
Gett, one of the world’s leading ride-hailing providers. Gett
app users can already instantly book rides, deliveries and
logistics services at the touch of a button in more than
100 cities worldwide. At the same time, MOIA is also focusing
on a second major business activity, namely the ride-pooling
business. The company’s goal is to set up its own app-based
on-demand ride-pooling services – also known as connected
commuting. It is aiming for holistic transport solutions that
make individual and public transport more efficient by avoiding unnecessary individual journeys and optimizing the use
of existing road infrastructure. This approach concentrates
on transport that takes users beyond the boundaries of a
single city.

In the future, fully automated vehicles will enrich the mobility
experience of many people. A mobility concept based on
intensively used self-driving vehicles will take up less space,
consume less energy, and be safer and more sustainable at
the same time. And the concept offers tailor-made mobility
for everyone: adults and children, senior citizens and people
with physical disabilities, urban residents who do not have
their own cars or driving licenses, and visitors to a new city
who suddenly decide they want a convenient way to get from
A to B.
With SEDRIC (self-driving car), the Volkswagen Group has not
only developed a completely new, fully autonomous concept
car, but also an integrated mobility concept showing how we
will use our roads in the future. A cross-brand ideas platform
for the Volkswagen Group, SEDRIC, which features an innovative control system, is giving entirely new meaning to the
concept of automated driving. The touch of a button, a verbal
command or a smartphone app is enough to summon the
self-driving automobile, which comes and takes its passengers conveniently, reliably and safely to their destination.

9

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

The strategic KPIs of this target dimension include the Group’s
attractiveness as an employer as determined internally by means
of the opinion survey and as perceived externally, as well as the
equality index.

Third key building block: strengthening innovative power
Both the transformation of our core business and the new mobility solutions business require us to strengthen our traditionally
excellent ability to innovate and place it on an even broader footing.
To this end, the Volkswagen Group is pushing ahead with the digital
transformation of all parts of the Company.

Target dimension: role model for the environment,
safety and integrity
Every day, we at the Volkswagen Group assume and exercise responsibility in relation to the environment, safety and society. This
sense of responsibility informs all our thoughts and actions in equal
measure in all the decisions we make.

Fourth key building block: secure funding
Becoming one of the world’s leading providers of sustainable
mobility calls for substantial capital expenditure. This expenditure
is to be funded primarily through efficiency gains across all brands
and functions; operational excellence is something that concerns
the entire value chain, from product development and sourcing to
production and distribution. Additional funds for future investments can also be generated by optimizing the existing portfolio
of brands and equity investments.

We pay particular attention to the use of resources and the emissions of our product portfolio as well as those of our locations and
plants, with the goal of continuously reducing our carbon footprint
and lowering pollutant emissions. Through our innovations and
outstanding quality, we offer our customers maximum product safety.
We want to regain and strengthen the trust of our customers and
restore the Group’s positive public image. The most important principles in this process include compliance with laws and regulations,
the establishment of secure processes, and dealing openly with mistakes so that they can be avoided or rectified in the future. In terms
of integrity, Volkswagen aims to become a role model for a modern,
transparent and successful enterprise.

Goals and key performance indicators of the Group’s strategy
The strategic initiatives describe how we intend to achieve our vision
of becoming a world-leading provider of sustainable mobility. For
this purpose, we have defined four target dimensions – excited customers, excellent employer, role model for environment, safety and
integrity, and competitive profitability – which are designed to help
us grow sustainably.

The strategic KPIs of this target dimension include the decarbonization index and emissions metrics, as well as compliance, process
reliability and an error management culture.

Target dimension: excited customers
This target dimension focuses on the diverse needs of our customers
and on tailor-made mobility solutions. We aspire to exceed our
customers’ expectations, generating maximum benefit for them.
That calls not only for the best products, the most efficient solutions
and the best service, but also for flawless quality and an outstand­ing
image. We want to excite our existing customers, win over new
ones and retain their loyalty in the long term – because only loyal
and faithful customers will recommend us to others.

Target dimension: competitive profitability
Investors judge us by whether we are able to meet our obligations
as regards interest payments and debt repayments. As equity holders,
they expect adequate dividends and a lasting increase in the value
of their shares.
We make investments with a view to achieving profitable growth
and strengthening our competitiveness, thus keeping the Volkswagen
Group on a firm footing and ensuring it remains an attractive investment option.

The strategic KPIs include, for example, the loyalty rate, conquest
rate and breakdowns.
Target dimension: excellent employer

The goals we have set ourselves are to achieve operational excellence in all business processes and to become the benchmark for the
entire industry.

Skilled and dedicated employees are one of the keys to sustainable
success. We wish to promote their satisfaction and motivation by
means of equal opportunities, a modern and attractive working
environment, and a forward-looking work organization. An exemplary
leadership and corporate culture forms the basis for this, enabling
us to retain our core workforce and attract new talent.

The strategic KPIs are operationalized for internal management
purposes: target and actual data are derived from Volkswagen Group
figures.

10

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

Strategic KPIs:
competitive profitability

SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY
GRI G4-18

as urbanization, urban development and the quality of transport
infrastructure. We also take account of demand trends, such as the
shared use of vehicles.

Mobility is one of the key conditions for economic growth. The latest
challenge is to cater to the growing demand for mobility despite
diminishing resources and, in the process, reduce its negative effects
on the environment. Holistic mobility concepts have to be efficient,
sustainable, customer-oriented and, above all else, designed in
such a way that they are accessible anytime and anywhere. We at
Volkswagen are researching and developing groundbreaking mobility
solutions for our customers that will shape the future in this area.
We do not limit our focus to automotive mobility, but take in other
modes of transport as well and examine structural issues such

It is our goal to provide our customers around the globe with viable,
long-term mobility solutions that place equal priority on economic,
social and ecological objectives. To offer such solutions, a company
must operate sustainably – which means developing sustainable
technologies and creating an environment in which they are applied
in a sustainable manner. This is our understanding of sustainable
mobility.

SUSTAINABLE
COMPANY
Employment
Return on sales

Cultural change
Compliance
Customer wishes
Recycling
Lightweight design

SUSTAINABLE
TECHNOLOGY

Natura-gas drives

Conflict minerals
Life cycle
Transparency
Stakeholders

Concept vehicles

Algorithms
Elektric drives

Integrity

Software

Hybrid drives
Mobility on demand

Industry 4.0
Shuttle-pooling service
Autonomous driving

Ride hailing

Robotaxis
SUSTAINABLE
APPLICATIONS

G4-18
11

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

At the same time, the shift toward electric mobility and the
associated investments in production capacity, like for the manufacturing of innovative battery technology, also generate new
employment opportunities.

However, the economic, social and environmental requirements
placed on our mobility solutions often contain inherently conflicting
goals, as can be seen in some of the examples discussed below:
§§ Individual mobility solutions facilitate participation in society and
individual autonomy. In the future, many people will still want
their own cars – despite the continuously increasing availability
of innovative mobility concepts such as robotaxis and carsharing.
This applies particularly in the growing consumer markets of emer­
ging and developing countries. However, the desire for individual
mobility also contributes to increased consumption of natural
resources and accelerates the process of human-made climate
change.

§§ But electric mobility also raises new environmental questions,
such as how to measure the environmental impact of electric and
hybrid vehicles compared with conventional vehicles in terms
of the use of mineral resources in production and the recycling of
battery cells at the end of the product lifecycle.
§§ Automated vehicles and new mobility services offer more con­
venience, boost safety, and encourage further optimization of
transport and traffic systems, especially in urban agglomerations.
The lines between individual and collective mobility are becoming
increasingly blurred. The result is a new competitive environment
with completely new players, to which the Volkswagen Group
must adapt.

§§ The enormous market success of SUVs underscores the attractiveness of Volkswagen products. Fulfilling these existing customer
wishes safeguards the economic success of the Volkswagen Group
and provides job security to its employees. But the higher fuel
consumption of SUVs compared with other vehicle models makes
it more difficult for the Volkswagen Group to meet the climate
targets it has set.

Identifying, openly addressing and finding solutions to these issues –
in collaboration with our stakeholders whenever possible, but at
the very least in a spirit of constructive dialog – is essential to the
Volkswagen Group’s sustainable growth. Whenever we fail to achieve
a balance between economic, social and environmental objectives,
long-term risks emerge both for our stakeholders and for the financial
success of the Volkswagen Group.

§§ Government legislation has made ecological structural change
inevitable. Electrification has the potential to transform mobility
and makes compliance with carbon emission regulations possible.
However, this profound change presents new challenges for existing production methods and requires retraining for employees.

MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
AND SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
GRI G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-22, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26

are made on the basis of a ten-year timeline. Another instrument
for identifying challenges and expectations and for dealing with
changing underlying conditions is the stakeholder dialog, which we
cultivate at both Group and market level (see “Stakeholder Management”).

Even if the major challenges are known and can be assessed,
the resulting demands on the Volkswagen Group are nevertheless
subject to constant change and must be reassessed at regular
intervals, necessitating ongoing adjustments to our strategic planning. Consequently, within the Volkswagen Group we have several
specialized functions engaged in observing megatrends in society,
analyzing the overall economic environment, tracking emerging
customer trends and continuously benchmarking our products and
services against the competition. The results are brought together
in a process known as the planning round, which ensures that the
important decisions for production, purchasing and sales structures

Based on these observations and in light of the widespread societal
challenges we face, in 2016 we once again reviewed the identified
areas in which the Volkswagen Group can and must make a special
contribution – because these are fields where we have a significant
impact or where we are particularly well placed to exert influence,
and where consequently a great deal is also expected of us.

12

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

Materiality Analysis and Sustainability Management
in the Volkswagen Group
GRI G4-18, G4-19, G4-24, G4-26

STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS

ACTION AREAS

ECONOMY

Stability and profitability

Quality/vehicle safety
Compliance, risk management,
governance

Diversity and equal opportunities

PEOPLE

Mission
Objectives

Sustainability Report
Financial markets

Brands

Health

Vision

EXTERNAL

Customer satisfaction

Supplier relations

STRATEGY

INTERNAL

COMMUNICATION

Annual Report
Regions

Politics

Companies

NGOs

Specialist
functions

Key accounts

…

…

Training

Location-specific
projects
EVALUATION
Internet

Group Connect: GCM
Community

Attractive employer
Social responsibility
Participation

Strategy 2025

Sustainability
Board

UN Global
Compact

CSR&S CSG

CSR Europe

CSR project team

econsense

Group CSR
Meeting

Biodiversity in
Good Company
e.V.

…

…

newsletter

ENVIRONMENT

Environmentally friendly
products/electrification
Sustainable mobility and
connectivity
Resource conservation
throughout life cycle
Climate protection/decarbonization
Environmental protection and
nature conservation

Ratings/rankings

Stakeholder Panel
Awards
Guidelines/standards

Conferences and
presentations
…

MANAGEMENT: SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

In 2016, two developments played a role in a detailed analysis of the
topics of material importance to the Volkswagen Group. Specifically,
these were the question of the strategic realignment of the Company
under our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, and the question of handling
the repercussions from the diesel crisis.

3. Since the creation of the Volkswagen Group’s Corporate Strategy
unit in November 2015, information and ideas are shared more
closely and intensively between the sustainability and strategy
teams. This has included, for example, participation in the Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee and in strategy workshops.

In practice, our approach to the analysis and identification of significant issues was as follows:
1. From global challenges, we derived a list of 16 central action areas
in which we need to provide answers. We did this on the basis of
the following sources: external studies, industry analyses and our
brands’ stakeholder surveys, as well as internal guidelines such
as the Group-wide TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 and the individual
strategies of our divisions.

4. To ensure that sustainability is implemented as part of the
corporate strategy, four workshops were held with sustainability
officers from the brands and specialist departments in the first
half of 2016. One important result was a clear focus in the topic
of decarbonization. This led us to revisit the “climate protection/
decarbonization” action area, which was then included in
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 with an indicator (decarbonization
index). In addition, activities bundled under “environment and
nature conservation” were made more visible in that action area.

2. The identification of these action areas was largely based on the
findings of three expert workshops held in 2015, addressing topics
relating to the economy, the environment and people. One key
objective was to develop targets and indicators for issues deemed
significant. The findings were incorporated into the corporate
restructuring which followed as part of the TOGETHER – Strategy
2025, enabling a systematic examination of non-financial performance indicators.

5. Whereas – in light of the diesel issue – at the 2015 Group CSR
Meeting (GCM) we held discussions with representatives of the
brands and regions, examining the Group’s sustainability performance based on an analysis of our strengths and weaknesses, at
the 2016 GCM we focused completely on TOGETHER – Strategy
2025. This included discussing the significance of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the Volkswagen
Group and conducting an assessment. The results were explored

13

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Our approach

bility, all the issues on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) list of
sustainability aspects can and must be regarded as “significant”
for the Volkswagen Group. The specific measures within the action
areas are still being fleshed out in line with the objectives, values
and indicators in our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025.

in depth by the various sustainability committees and have been
integrated into the Group’s comprehensive realignment process.
6. F ollowing these detailed discussions, the overall findings of the
materiality process led to the realization that in view of the
Group’s size, its potential influence and the associated responsi-

Volkswagen Group’s Key Action Areas
GRI G4-19, G4-20, G4-21

Volkswagen Group´s key action areas
People

Attractiveness as
an employer

Environmentally
friendly products/
electrification

Health
Quality/
Vehicle Safety

Sustainable
mobility and
connectivity

Environmental
protection and nature
conservation

Supplier
relationships
Leading provider
of sustainable
mobility

This representation of the 16 key action areas, broken down into the
three dimensions of Economy, People and Environment, is intended
to illustrate the factors we focus on in order to be a leading global
provider of sustainable mobility. In view of our broad international
standing, we have deliberately avoided any prioritization of our
action areas. On the one hand, the relevance of the individual areas
may vary by region; on the other hand, we do not want to judge,

nt

me

Stability and
profitability

Compliance, risk
management, corporate
governance

Corporate
responsibility

Diversity and
equality

iron

Eco
no

Customer satisfaction

Training

Env

my

Participation

Resource
conservation
throughout life cycle
Climate
protection /
decarbonization

for example, whether the health of more than 625,000 employees
worldwide is more important than, for example, resource conservation throughout the vehicle life cycle – or vice versa. As we understand it, sustainable development means taking equal account of
economic, environmental and social interests and maintaining an
appropriate balance between them.

14

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Sustainable management

Sustainable management
The Volkswagen Group has made a commitment to sustainability-oriented, transparent and responsible management.
The greatest challenge to putting this into practice at all levels and all stages of the value chain is our complexity, with
12 brands, more than 625,000 employees and 120 production sites. In line with the recommendations of the German
Corporate Governance Code, we practice Group-wide sustainability coordination and forward-looking risk management, and rely on a clear framework for the future-oriented handling of environmental issues, responsibility toward our
employees and social engagement by our brands and in the various regions. The remuneration of the Group Board of
Management is geared to the Company’s long-term results.
COORDINATION OF SUSTAINABILITY
GRI G4-26

Sustainability has top priority at the Volkswagen Group. We have
­established a clear structure for coordinating sustainability activities,
including internal and external sustainability committees.

Volkswagen Sustainability Organization
GRI G4-26
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP (SUSTAINABILITY BOARD)

SUSTAINABILITY
OFFICE

GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STEERING
COMMITTEE

OTHER GROUP
STEERING
COMMITTEES

EXTERNAL

INTERNAL

SUSTAINABILITY
COUNCIL

BRANDS
Sustainability Board &
Steering Committee

Management

STAKEHOLDER
PANEL

REGIONS

national

international

worked on strategic questions of holistic sustainability management, encompassing issues of environmental as well as social
responsibility.

Our internal sustainability coordination reflects the inseparability
of our corporate and sustainability strategies. We firmly believe that
a company can only be successful in the long term if its corporate
activities remain in balance with the environment and society. This
is why at Volkswagen, sustainability is a management issue. In its
function as our Sustainability Board, in 2016, the Group Board of
Management under the leadership of CEO Matthias Müller regularly

The Group Board of Management is regularly informed by the
Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee on issues related to
sustainability and corporate responsibility. The steering commit-

15

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Sustainable management

tee includes top managers from central Group business areas and
representatives of the Group Works Council and the brands. Its tasks
include defining strategic sustainability goals and position statements, identifying key action areas, and approving the sustainability
report. Indicators are used to monitor the extent to which these
sustainability goals are being met. The steering committee meets
regularly under the leadership of the external affairs and sustainability function.

These coordination and working structures have also been established across the brands and are subject to ongoing development.

The sustainability office supports the steering committee. Its duties
include coordinating all sustainability-related activities within the
Group and the brands. Relevant economic, environmental and social
issues are integrated into the ongoing development of the Group’s
sustainability strategy. As part of the environmental and socio-­
political regulatory process, we maintain on ongoing dialog with
policymakers with the aim of providing information and advice and
learning from each other. Stakeholder expectations from the brands
and regions are comprehensively discussed in the sustainability
office. The office also handles the monitoring and coordination of
sustainability ratings, the results of which increasingly impact on
companies’ attractiveness to investors. And finally, it is responsible
for drawing up the sustainability report and coordinating the Sustainability Council and its meetings.

Appointed in 2016, the international Sustainability Council is made
up of renowned experts from the scientific community, government
and society. Council members regularly consult with the Board of
Management, senior managers and employee representatives. The
council’s role is to keep a watchful, critical eye on developments
within the Company and in society. The Sustainability Council is
authorized to proactively propose topics and implement projects
subject to prior agreement. More detailed information on the council’s members and activities can be found here.

With the aim of continuously improving our sustainability concept
and living up to the expectations of our stakeholders, the Volkswagen
Group has set up two external committees, the Sustainability
Council and the Stakeholder Panel, to independently advise the
Group.

In cooperation with the Institute for Market, Environment and Society
(imug), we set up a Stakeholder Panel that has kept track of our
sustainability activities, especially those covered in our sustainability
reporting, for the past 20 years and provided a critical commentary.
The panel includes some 100 national and international stakeholders
from government, academia and research, the financial markets,
and civil society. Detailed interviews are conducted and the findings
applied to sharpen our understanding of the expectations of our external stakeholders. This helps us ask the necessary critical questions
and systematically optimize our sustainability management and
reporting to make them more effective.

At divisional level, the CSR project team fosters a regular exchange
of information on current projects between the various sustainability
experts within the Volkswagen Group. In addition, other project
teams work across business areas on topics such as reporting,
stakeholder management and sustainability in supplier relations.

FUNCTIONS AND COMPOSITION OF
THE MANAGEMENT BODIES

Company. The composition of the Supervisory Board complies with
the Gesetz für die gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen in der Privatwirtschaft und im öffentlichen Dienst (FührposGleichberG – Act on the Equal Participation
of Women and Men in Leadership Positions in the Private and Public
Sectors), which specifies a statutory quota of at least 30% women
and at least 30% men. Shareholder and employee representatives
have resolved that each side shall meet this quota separately.

The Board of Management of Volkswagen AG, which is has nine
members, is the ultimate body responsible for managing the Group.
Each member is responsible for one or more functions, and some
members also have responsibility for a region. The Group Board of
Management is supported in its work by the boards and management teams of the brands and regions, and of the other Group
companies and affiliated companies. The Supervisory Board, which
appoints, monitors and advises the Board of Management, is consulted directly on decisions that are of material significance for the

16

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Sustainable management

GUIDELINES AND PRINCIPLES
Our business practices are in line with the recommendations of the
German Corporate Governance Code, and we coordinate sustainability
across the Group. This reflects our conviction that stable, long-term
business based on ethical criteria is a prerequisite for acting in an
environment-friendly way and playing a responsible part in shaping
the future of people within the Group and in society at large.

Model of Sustainable Development:

Voluntary undertakings and principles that apply across the Group
form the basis and backbone of our sustainability management.
These include our Model of Sustainable Development, our stakeholder guidelines and our corporate guidelines.

§§ a lasting balance between economic, ecological and social
systems and the aim for a long-term balance of divergent interests,

The Model of Sustainable Development, which Volkswagen adopted
in 2002 to mark the UN World Summit in South Africa, build a bridge
between our traditions and our future while providing a framework
for sustainable corporate policy with three key elements:

§§ responsibility for our own actions at regional, national and
global level,
§§ transparent communications and fair cooperation.

Stakeholder Guidelines

In addition, we are committed to the United Nations Global Compact, and since 2002 have remained dedicated to promoting human
rights, upholding labor standards, protecting the environment and
combatting corruption. In 2013, this commitment was extended to

include the CEO Water Mandate, which aims to ensure careful use
of water resources. Until the diesel crisis has finally been resolved,
we have agreed that the Volkswagen Group’s membership should be
suspended.

17

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Sustainable management

Corporate Guidelines

18

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Strategic STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

Strategic
Stakeholder Management
As an automobile manufacturer encompassing 12 brands and 120 production sites in 153 markets, we are confronted
with a broad spectrum of requirements, expectations and attitudes on a daily basis. The enormous diversity of our
interactions represents an enormous opportunity, because the relationships which our companies maintain with their
stakeholders are invaluable to the work we do together. At the same time, this diversity of interests is also a challenge,
because it can result in conflicting objectives.

VOLKSWAGEN BALANCES STAKEHOLDER DEMANDS
GRI G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-27

Around the globe, we are confronted with a broad spectrum of
stakeholder requirements, expectations and attitudes on a daily
basis. The enormous diversity of our interactions is invaluable to
the work we do. At the same time, this diversity of interests is also
a challenge, because it can result in conflicting objectives.

Stakeholders are individuals, groups or organizations with a legitimate interest in how the Volkswagen Group reaches its corporate
decisions and in the implications of those decisions. Our customers
and employees form the center of our stakeholder universe. Based
on our regular contacts, we have identified twelve additional stakeholder groups surrounding this core, which we make no attempt to
prioritize.

19

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Strategic STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

Volkswagen Group Stakeholders
GRI G4-21, G4-24

1
2

3

BUSINESS

POLITICS

Investors and analysts

Government agencies & authorities

Business partners

Trade unions

Competitors

Clubs and associations
NGOs / charitable
organizations
CUSTOMERS

Volkswagen
Group
ACADEMIA

MEDIA

Researchers & experts

Media organizations

EMPLOYEES

SOCIETY
Religious institutions

Residents & local authorities

Cultural &
educational institutions

Volkswagen Group Stakeholders
In the 2016 reporting year, our stakeholders took advantage of sur­
veys and dialog events to communicate numerous expectations of
the Volkswagen Group. We have summarized their suggestions and
feedback, as well as our reactions to this input, for you here.

20

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Strategic STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

Stakeholder Suggestions and Volkswagen AG Responses

HOLISTIC APPROACH TO STRATEGIC
STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT
G4-21, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

§§ Jointly developing solutions to problems

We have a strategic stakeholder management system in place to
help the Volkswagen Group navigate the large numbers of diverse
stakeholders and their needs, and ensure they are included in our
business decisions. We will only be successful in the long term if
we familiarize ourselves thoroughly with the interests, needs and
expectations of our stakeholders and deal with them proactively.
To successfully facilitate a dialog of equals, our stakeholder management system must meet the following criteria:

§§ Transparently making decisions
We believe that stakeholder management means fostering relationships with our stakeholders. This requires systematic and strategic
planning, implementation and monitoring of our activities. To this
end, in the 2016 reporting year we restructured and consolidated
our stakeholder management system in line with a holistic approach.

§§ Systematically recording the expectations placed on Volkswagen
§§ Productively sharing the knowledge of all parties involved

21

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Strategic STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

STRATEGY

Sta
n
gu dard
idi
ng izatio
p
n
gu rinci thro
ide ple
ug
lin
s
es and h

STA
ND
AR
D

N

O
ATI
ALU
EV

PLANNING &
MANAGEMENT

g
rin
ito tainon
t
c m oal a and
ati
g
of ation older
tem
Sys eview ntific akeh
r
e
st
and nt; id n of sts
me uatio ntere
l
i
eva

IZA
T IO

N

Goals and social engagement
requirements derived from
corporate strategy

GRI G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27

22

Ins
t
tio ituti
bo n thr onali
die
z
o
s a ugh ed co
nd
p
pa rojec -dete
rtic
r
t
ipa s, ad mina
tor vis
y c ory
ult
ure

SU

COOPERATION

N

Close, trust-based collaboration through
partnership programs, memberships and
multi-stakeholder initiatives

IPA
TIO

N
CO

DOCUMENTATION &
COMMUNICATION

PA
RT
IC

ies
nit op
rtu
po , sym nop
ue tures r cha
e
c
log
dia s, le oth
ng vent and
eri
s
e
Off ugh shop els
n
k
o
thr , wor
sia

N
TIO
LTA

We take responsibility,
together with our
stakeholders

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Strategic STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

Stakeholder Management at Volkswagen
as a recent study conducted by terre des hommes that made us
aware of issues surrounding the production of mica in India, can
also lead us to initiate discussions and examine opportunities for
cooperation.

§§ Planning and Governance: Our brands and divisions are responsible for maintaining direct contact with our stakeholders. We bring
these processes together under one roof at Group level, ensuring
that information is shared between Group, brands and regions,
establishing clear guidelines for stakeholder management, and
coordinating the activities of Group sustainability officers (sustainability management).

§§ Partnerships: At the Group level, our work with selected stakeholders takes the form of strategic partnerships. In the reporting
year, this included our cooperation with the German Red Cross
(DRK) and Kiron. Since 1998, the Volkswagen Group Works Council
has been successfully collaborating with terre des hommes, a
children’s and young people’s charity, in the “One hour for the
future” campaign. Our memberships provide an additional format
for cooperation with our stakeholders. A list of our current memberships can be found here.

§§ Documentation and Communication: Our Sustainability Report is
our primary medium for documentation. Shift, our sustainability
magazine, supplements this report with critical self-scrutiny and
forward-looking perspectives. We regularly provide additional
information on current projects in press releases and social media.
For internal communications, we also use our online community
Group Connect, several magazines and a short messaging service.
We employ the latter to send out weekly information on current
topics and issues in two languages. The Group Sustainability
Council has its own newsletter.

§§ Participation: Stakeholder relations are not a one-way street.
We see our stakeholders as equal partners, and involve them in
our decision-making processes. In addition to the strong culture
of co-determination at Volkswagen, which played a role in the
­development of our Social Charter and Charter on Labour Relations,
the activities of our Group Sustainability Council should also be
mentioned here.

§§ Standardization: Our stakeholder management is guided by the
standards established by many different levels of regulation
(policies). The most important policies include the AccountAbility
1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard and the latest generation of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). We also
remain committed to the objectives and principles of sustainable
development.

§§ Evaluation: Stakeholder management begins with the question of
stakeholder needs and ends with systematic monitoring of results.
Each year, we collect feedback from our stakeholders through our
Stakeholder Panel and our comprehensive stakeholder surveys.
The results of our 2016 reputation study, which we used to obtain
a systematic picture of the opinions and expectations of our
stakeholders, can be found here. In addition, three dissertation
projects are currently examining suggestions for the further development of our stakeholder management approach. An overview
of these projects can be found here.

§§ Consultation: An overview of our programs and initiatives for
dialog and interaction can be found here. In the reporting year, the
primary forums for direct, face-to-face discussions were the Audi
Stakeholder Forum in Brussels, the Scania Sustainable Transport
Forum in Paris, and the Stakeholder Panel dialog event held by
Volkswagen AG in Hanover. Information received from NGOs, such

“Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable
development” is one of the United Nation’s goals
for sustainable development.

23

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Corporate Citizenship

Corporate Citizenship
In selecting and implementing projects, we are guided by our Groupwide policies, which provide the decision-making framework for all
our activities:

Volkswagen has always believed in the importance of assuming
social responsibility for our stakeholders. As an internationally active
corporation, we bear a global responsibility that extends beyond our
factory gates. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) defined
by the United Nations in 2015 will provide an important frame of
reference for our corporate citizenship going forward. One of the
objectives behind the revision of our corporate citizenship strategy
in 2016 was to identify those SDGs to which the Volkswagen Group
can contribute most effectively.

§§ The projects align with our corporate mission while addressing a
global challenge or a specific local or regional issue.
§§ They are an expression of the diversity within the Group and the
social environment in which the projects are being carried out.
§§ They are developed in close dialog with local stakeholders, who
are also involved in their implementation.

We consider it important to take a strategic approach to corporate
citizenship, so we select and develop our projects carefully – both
independently and in collaboration with local partner organizations
and NGOs. Alongside our objective of helping to address global challenges, the needs of local stakeholders play an equally important
role for us. Local project management allows us to react flexibly to
these needs. To achieve the aim of lasting structural change, we also
place great value on continuity and long-term partnerships.

§§ Projects are managed locally under the responsibility of the units
that operate in that region.
By turning our attention to both local and international issues,
we are able to live up to the many and diverse expectations of our
stakeholders. In 2016, the Group and all its brands and regions were
involved in around 200 projects, which included development, educational and social welfare initiatives.

STRATEGIC CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
A description of our organizational structure and the guidelines
associated with our management approach to Corporate Social
Responsibility can be found at Chapter People > Competent and
dedicated employees > Commitment to Society.

The building blocks of our corporate citizenship initiatives are de­cen­
tralized project management, diversity, and space for local needs.
Nevertheless, in the future we intend to pursue the networking of
projects at Group level more aggressively, which will allow us to
scale up successful projects and bundle resources even more efficiently. We also want to obtain a more comprehensive overview of
the effectiveness of our projects. With this in mind, we are looking
at new ways to quantify our activities. Building on the London
Benchmarking Group input-output-impact (IOI) method for measuring the effectiveness of corporate citizenship initiatives, we have
analyzed selected projects to find out who they benefit. As part of
this process, we have also aggregated our inputs across the Group
and recorded the different objectives in detail.

Worldwide Responsibility
Through some 200 projects around the globe, the Volkswagen Group
is making a contribution to social mobility in the fields of education,
diversity and health while at the same time promoting road safety,
regional economic development, sports, and the arts. These projects
can take on countless forms in order to meet different local needs
and challenges. In India, our T5 was repurposed as a mobile health
clinic in very short order; in Uitenhage, South Africa, we are helping
young entrepreneurs to launch start-ups; and in China, we are
running seminars and campaigns to raise awareness of child safety
on roads. An overview of our many, varied projects, together with
detailed descriptions of each project, can be found here.

This extensive pool of data gives us a comprehensive overview of the
backgrounds, objectives and effectiveness of our environmental and
community projects. Based on this information, we will revise our
corporate citizenship strategy in 2017 and define new areas of focus
in line with our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025. We will also, however,
continue to prioritize a balance between large-scale transregional
projects that address strategically important issues, and local
projects that take local problems and stakeholder expectations into
account.

24

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Risk Management

Risk Management
and a compliance management system (CMS) within a single management strategy. Uniform Group principles are used as the basis for
managing risks in a consistent manner.

Promptly identifying the risks and opportunities associated with
our operating activities and taking a forward-looking approach
to managing them is crucial to our Company’s long-term success.
A comprehensive risk management and internal control system
(RMS/ICS) helps the Volkswagen Group deal with risks in a responsible
manner.

In the reporting year, we continued to develop our RMS/ICS. In
addition to the ad hoc and annual risk assessment, the Board of
Management also receives quarterly risk reports. This additional
reporting on the current risk situation raises awareness of risks in
the Company and encourages an open approach to dealing with
them. We continued to reinforce the internal control system in the
area of product compliance in 2016. This includes what are known
as the Golden Rules, which we describe in the chapter on the diesel
issue in the Volkswagen AG 2016 Annual Report, pages 96 and 97.

The aim of RMS/ICS is to identify potential risks at an early stage so
that suitable countermeasures can be taken to avert the threat of
loss to the Company, and so that any risks that might jeopardize its
continued existence can be ruled out.
The organizational design of the Volkswagen Group’s RMS/ICS
is based on the internationally recognized COSO framework for
enterprise risk management (COSO: Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission). In the reporting year,
Volkswagen again pursued a holistic, integrated approach that
combines a risk management system, an internal control system

Assessing the probability and extent of future events and develop­
ments is, by its nature, subject to uncertainty. We are therefore
aware that even the best RMS cannot foresee all potential risks and
even the best ICS can never completely prevent illicit actions.

“THREE LINES OF DEFENSE” APPROACH
RMS/ICS and coordinates the quarterly risk survey and the annual
GRC control process. In the GRC control process, the brands, major
companies and individual functions identify systemic risks and
verify the effectiveness of the RMS/ICS. This serves as a basis
for updating the overall picture of the potential risk situation and
assessing the effectiveness of the system. The Group Board of
Management receives a report on significant risks, which are also
defined in terms of quantitative and qualitative assessment criteria
and given probability ratings.

Another key element of the RMS/ICS at Volkswagen is the three lines
of defense model, a basic element required, among others, by the
European Confederation of Institutes of Internal Auditing (ECIIA).
In line with this model, the Volkswagen Group’s RMS/ICS has three
lines of defense that are designed to protect the Company from the
occurrence of significant risks.
§§ The first line of defense is formed by the divisions, companies
and brands. Events that may give rise to risks are identified and
assessed locally in the divisions and by the investees. Thanks
to reports during the year via the paths documented above, the
Board has an overall picture of the current risk situation at all
times. The minimum requirements for the RMS/ICS are laid down
in a single guidance document for the entire Group. This also
includes a process for timely notification of significant risks.

§§ The third line of defense is Group Internal Audit, which makes
regular checks on the structure and implementation of the RMS as
part of its independent audit activities
A detailed overview of our risk management and internal control
system can be found in the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the
Group Management Report of our 2016 Annual Report.

§§ The second line of defense is the Group Governance, Risk &
Compliance (GRC) department, which sets standards for the

25

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Risk Management

“Three Lines Of Defense” Approach
SUPERVISORY BOARD

BOARD OF MANAGEMENT

FIRST LEVEL

SECOND LEVEL

THIRD LEVEL

Group GRC
Companies and
business units

Operational Reports from
Risik Management

Risk
Inventory

Effectiveness
RMS/ICS process

Coordination RMS/ICS Process

Compliance
Management
System

Group Internal
Audit

Audit and Report
on RMS/ICS

SIGNIFICANT RISKS
The diesel issue both causes risks for the Volkswagen Group and has
an impact on existing risks. The Volkswagen Group has made suitable provisions for risks arising from the diesel issue, in particular
for the upcoming service campaigns, recalls and customer-related
measures, as well as legal risks, but also for residual value risks.

which can result from CO2 and emissions legislation and regulations.
Extreme weather situations, storms or floods can lead to failure of
information and communication technology, supplier failure resulting in production stoppages, or general production downtime at one
of our more than 100 production locations worldwide.

Risks that could impact on the Volkswagen Group’s bottom line also
include general environmental risks and climate change risks. These
risks are identified, assessed and managed by the Group’s divisions
and companies within the framework of the RMS. This includes risks

More information on economic, political, financial and operational
risks can be found in the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the
Group Management Report of our 2016 Annual Report.

26

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Diesel Crisis. A Status Report

Diesel Crisis.
A Status Report
TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Volkswagen does not tolerate any breaches of the law or other wrong­
doing. We deeply regret the behavior that gave rise to the diesel crisis. Such misconduct runs contrary to all the values that Volkswagen
stands for. We have taken significant steps to strengthen accountability, extend transparency and prevent something like this from ever
happening again.

The trust of our customers, our shareholders, partners, employees
and the general public is our most important asset. The Group has
substantially elevated its commitment to working ethically and with
integrity. Volkswagen can and will set an example in the years ahead
as to how a large, global company embodies and takes its social
responsibility seriously.

Chronicle
Feb 3, 2016
Trust campaign

Jan 4, 2016
US lawsuit

Jun 16, 2016
TOGETHER–
Apr 22, 2016 Strategy
2025
Status of
clarification –
nothing
published

Aug 26, 2016
US dealers
compensated

Oct 25, 2016
Settlement
approved
by C. Breyer

Nov 23, 2016
Publication
of Shift
sustainability
magazine

Jan 11, 2017
Statements
of Fact
by DOJ2

Jan 30, 2017/
March 14, 2017
Volkswagen
is world’s largest
automaker

Mar 8, 2017
Committee of
Inquiry finishes
its work

Jan 1, 2016

Jan 27, 2016
Recall begins
in Germany

USA/CANADA

Mar 27, 2017

Feb 29, 2016
Geneva:
Digitalization,
Group Future
Center

EU28/RoW

1

Jun 8, 2016
KBA approves
2.5 million
vehicles

Jun 28, 2016
Steps toward
agreement
in USA

Oct 24, 2016
Group
Sustainability
Council

Dec 21, 2016
ll KBA approvals;
KBA disclaimer
on Dec 30, 20161
Nov 17, 2016
Pact for the
Future

COMPANY

Feb 28, 2017
EMIS Committee
Final Report2
Jan 21, 2017
Professor Winterkorn
attends Bundestag
Committee
of Inquiry

Mar 10, 2017
Settlement
comes into
force

As at: March 27, 2017

Annual Report: In fiscal year 2016, the Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt (KBA – German Federal Motor Transport Authority) issued the of ficial approvals needed
for modification of Volkswagen Group vehicles fitted with four-cylinder EA 189 1.2 l, 1.6 l and 2.0 l diesel engines falling within its remit.
Only the approval of the technical solutions for 14,000 vehicles is still outstanding, which is expected to be granted by April 2017.
2
Department of Justice (DOJ); Emission Measurements in the Automotive Sector (EMIS)

27

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Diesel Crisis. A Status Report

IMPACT
§§ Criminal and administrative proceedings worldwide (excluding
the USA/Canada)

Operating result for 2016: Special items recognized in operating
profit relating to the diesel issue amounted to €–6.4 billion in fiscal
year 2016, mainly due to higher provisions for legal risks.

§§ Product-related lawsuits worldwide (excluding the USA/Canada)

Legal risks: Various legal risks are associated with the diesel issue.
The provisions recognized for this matter and the contingent liabilities disclosed as well as the other latent legal risks are partially
subject to substantial estimation risks given the complexity of the
individual factors, the ongoing approval process with the authorities
and the fact that the independent, comprehensive investigations
have not yet been completed. The legal risks include (detailed information can be found in the chapter on “Litigation”:

§§ Lawsuits filed by investors worldwide (excluding the USA/Canada)
§§ Proceedings in the USA/Canada.
Should these legal risks materialize, this could result in considerable
financial charges. Further risks from the diesel issue can be found in
the Report on Risks and Opportunities.

CLARIFYING THE FACTS
which is independently investigating the matter, including allegations
of fraud. Searches were carried out in Wolfsburg and elsewhere with
the involvement of special agents from the State Office of Criminal
Investigation.

In January 2017, Volkswagen AG agreed with the US government to
resolve federal criminal liability relating to the diesel issue. The Volkswagen Group also agreed with the US government to resolve civil
penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean Air Act and other civil
claims against the Company relating to the diesel issue.

We are cooperating with all the responsible authorities to clarify
these matters completely and transparently.

The coordinated resolutions involve four settlements, including a plea
agreement between Volkswagen AG and the DOJ. The plea agreement
is accompanied by a published Statement of Facts that lays out relevant facts and has been acknowledged by Volkswagen AG.

Investigations were divided into two parts. The Group Internal Audit
function, which involved bringing together experts from various
Group companies to form a task force, focused – as instructed by
the Supervisory Board and Board of Management – on reviewing
relevant processes, reporting and control systems as well as the
accompanying infrastructure. This function paid special attention
to the processes of software development for the engine control
unit. The Group Internal Audit function provided its findings to the
external experts from Jones Day. The internationally renowned law
firm was engaged by Volkswagen AG to fully clarify the facts and
responsibilities in a second investigation. Jones Day has received
operational support from auditing firm Deloitte.

As part of its plea agreement, Volkswagen AG has agreed to plead
guilty to three felony counts under US law: conspiracy, obstruction
of justice and using false statements to import cars into the US.
The plea agreement, which is subject to US federal court approval,
provides for payment of a criminal fine of $2.8 billion and the
appointment of an independent monitor for a period of three years.
The independent monitor will assess and oversee the Company’s
compliance with the terms of the resolution. This includes overseeing the implementation of measures to further strengthen compliance, reporting and monitoring systems, and an enhanced ethics
program.

The special investigation has involved conducting interviews with
employees and managers who were identified by Jones as relevant
sources of information on the diesel issue. In addition, Jones Day has
evaluated documents and data (such as emails).

Organizing the Clarification
Volkswagen AG commissioned an external investigation by US law
firm Jones Day. This is an independent and comprehensive investigation into the diesel issue. Jones Day is updating the Company and
the Department of Justice (DOJ) on the current results of its investigation on an ongoing basis and assisting Volkswagen AG in its cooperation with the judicial authorities. The course of action in clearing up
the situation was determined largely by the investigating authorities.

Communicating the Results of the Investigation
As already stated in April 2016, the US lawyers mandated by Volkswagen had strongly advised against publication of interim results
at that time. They had a number of reasons for making this recommendation. Among other things, publication could have impaired
the ongoing investigation and had a significant negative impact on
the cooperation between Volkswagen and the DOJ.

Furthermore, Volkswagen AG filed a criminal complaint in September
2015 with the responsible public prosecutor’s office in Braunschweig,

How long will it take until the company is able to leave the diesel crisis behind it?
“I can’t give you an exact time period – but it will take us quite a while. Serious mistakes
were made at Volkswagen. We have already paid dearly for them, and we remain
committed to taking responsibility for our actions. At the same time, we are using the crisis as
a starting point from which to steer Volkswagen in the right direction.”
Hans Dieter Pötsch, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, in an interview.
28

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Diesel Crisis. A Status Report

ACTIONS
Monitor
While the procedural investigations of Group Internal Audit primarily
applied to processes associated with diesel technology in 2015,
the findings resulting from the investigations in the reporting period
were transformed into general guidelines to shore up governance
and compliance. The “Golden Rules” encourage greater attentiveness and increase acceptance of critical process steps. These rules
represent minimum requirements in multiple categories, including
the organization, process and tools & systems categories of control
unit software development, emission classification and escalation
management.

The plea agreement provides for payment of a criminal fine of
$2.8 billion and the appointment of an independent monitor for the
next three years. The independent monitor will assess and oversee
Volkswagen’s compliance with the terms of the resolution. These
conditions include measures for further strengthening compliance
and the reporting and control systems at Volkswagen, as well as
implementing an enhanced ethics program.
Volkswagen has agreed to this solution and intends to comply with
the terms of each of the agreements reached.

Self-assessments were performed in the Volkswagen Passenger Cars,
Audi and Porsche brands to ensure structured application of the
Golden Rules and thus to optimize the internal control system (ICS)
in the areas affected. The results were validated as an integral part
of an investigation by the audit departments in the relevant brands
or by Group Internal Audit. By applying this consistent methodology
across the brands, the implementation status of the guidelines in the
Golden Rules was established and transparency created regarding
the degree of maturity of the ICS for the relevant processes; also for
the Board of Management.

As part of the sought-for consent decree, Volkswagen has agreed to
report on the steps it will take to further develop the processes that
will enable the Group to manage the ethical behavior of employees,
research and development, quality assurance and compliance with
US environmental legislation.
Optimizing Processes
The initiatives implemented in response to the diesel crisis aim to
further strengthen operational processes as well as reporting and
control systems, in order to ensure that responsibilities are clearly
and unequivocally regulated at all times. In addition, a more robust
whistleblower system and new, stricter standards for performing
in-house emission tests have been established. The Group has
significantly expanded its voluntary commitment to act ethically
and with integrity, and forged ahead with decentralization within
the organization. Brands and regions can now run their business
operations much more autonomously. These and other initiatives are
part of a comprehensive transformation of Volkswagen’s corporate
culture into a more entrepreneurial, international organization.

In addition, a cross-brand project that ensures similar implementation of the Golden Rules while taking the individual features of the
brands into account was initiated under the responsibility of Group
Research and Development. As part of this, development departments within the group reviewed their processes. Representatives
of the brands are working on the optimization of their processes in
project groups.
Key elements of the process optimization are:
§§ Early identification and interpretation of legislation around the
world and alignment of the product portfolio with the legal
requirements

Within the Volkswagen Group, emissions tests are now always
audited by independent third parties. In addition, “real-life” tests of
emission characteristics under real-world driving conditions are now
carried out internally. In tests of this kind, before a model is given
technical approval, a deliberate search is made for anything that
indicates the possible use of a defeat device. Important: in each case,
these tests must be carried out by a different department, which is/
was not responsible for developing the vehicle model to be tested.

§§ Guidelines for the development of software for drive control units
with documentation of the features of relevance to registration
§§ Introduction of multiple controls for approvals in the product
development process

Volkswagen has not only optimized its technical processes, but also
improved its general compliance organization.

§§ Reorganization within development for the purpose of separating the responsibility for the development of drives from official
approvals

Specific corrective action was proposed by Group Internal Audit for
the weaknesses it identified in 2015.

§§ Formation of new bodies for cross-brand management and clarification of compliance issues

As part of a structured follow-up process, implementation of corrective actions in 2016 was continuously tracked and reported to
the relevant bodies. A total of 31 measures were de-fined by Group
Internal Audit and the majority of them were implemented by the
end of 2016. The plan is to implement the remaining measures by
the middle of 2017.

§§ Uniform process standards and work instructions that give those
involved legal certainty in the work process
§§ Training programs in which everyone involved in the process is
required to participate

29

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Strategy

Diesel Crisis. A Status Report

ment and the experience of the entire workforce. This is why we
have instituted the Sounding Board program as a key initiative in
the integrity program. It will ensure close collaboration and dialog
between the integrity management team and the workforce with
the help of integrity ambassadors – voluntary support staff from
management and staff circles. Interactive services forming part of
this program round off the communications portfolio.

§§ Regular reporting to the Group Board of Management in order to
create transparency in relation to the implementation status of
this process optimization
Adaptation of the Golden Rules to other vehicle development processes and other areas of development is being addressed.
Integrity Program

3. E
 xecutive program: Management’s function as a role model for
integrity along with managers’ special responsibility was clearly
illustrated in a letter signed by all members of the Group Board
of Management and in supplementary information circulated to
executives and managers. The topic of integrity was also a fixed
part of numerous management events.

On January 1, 2016, we started to create the organizational framework for a centralized integrity management function by setting up
the new Board of Management position for Integrity and Legal Affairs. This Group function is responsible for planning, preparing and
implementing programs and projects aimed at raising, clarifying and
intensifying a collective awareness of integrity, as well as reinforcing
a shared culture of integrity in the Company. A continuous exchange
of ideas and discussion of issues relating to integrity are key components of the integrity management function.

4. P
 rocesses & tools: We are continuously examining the possibility
of incorporating our principles of integrity into the Company’s
key management elements, for example in the field of human
resources and collaboration with business partners

Volkswagen’s goal is to enhance the culture of integrity in the Company and create a collective awareness of integrity. To this end, we
launched an integrity program in 2016 involving all employees that
is based on six action areas:

5. Monitoring & reporting: Regular monitoring of the integrity
program not only helps us to fine-tune and readjust; it also
underlines the relevance of the concept of integrity for employees
and managers. Here, continuous evaluation of feedback from
the integrity ambassadors and from employees and managers
on issues relating to the adaptation and ref-inement of concepts
plays just as important a role as the reporting in internal media
and publications such as the sustainability report.

1. D
 ialog & communication: We provided information at regular
intervals on the concept of integrity and its importance as well as
on the evolution of the integrity program. In addition, we set up
an integrity mailbox to create opportunities for direct communication between the integrity management team and the workforce.
An exchange in the form of a live chat also took place on the
GroupConnect internal social network.

6. Internationalization: Once the pilot phase at the Wolfsburg site
has ended, we intend to expand the integrity program to all
brands, companies and regions. Managers of our Governance and
Risk & Compliance functions will act as key intermediaries in this
context.

2. Sounding Board program: A shared understanding of what integrity means at Volkswagen can only be developed with the involve-

30

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Responsibly along the entire value chain

Economy
Responsibly along the
entire value chain
In the future, technological innovations will allow us to meet the mobility needs of business and society, conserving
resources through significant advances in efficiency and economy.

Management approach
ness of current and future trends is crucially important for the
correct orientation of our research and development activities. Only
if we are armed with a reliable vision of technical possibilities
and at the same time, of their limitations, can we position the
Group in such a way as to ensure sustainable growth. This is why the
Volkswagen Group’s research institutions scattered throughout the
world’s key automotive markets monitor pioneering developments
directly at the coal face, thereby gaining crucial insights that will help
safeguard the Group’s future.

The automotive world is undergoing a period of revolutionary
change, and autonomous driving, e-mobility, connected vehicle concepts and the dynamics of digital transformation are showing the
new way forward. Technological innovations are exerting huge influence on customer expectations and established business models,
new players are entering the market, shorter innovation cycles are
the norm, and the development of new core competencies requires
steadily increasing capital investment. Combined with ever more
stringent emissions standards and a highly volatile market, all these
factors are creating ever more demanding market conditions. This
presents us, as an automotive manufacturer, with new challenges –
but also with a whole range of new opportunities, including prospects for lasting growth. Our aim is to operate responsibly along
the entire value chain. Everyone should benefit from this – our
customers, our employees, the environment and society as a whole.
We intend to become one of the world’s leading providers of sustainable mobility, creating enduring values, offering good working
conditions, and treating the environment and natural resources
with due care.

In the reporting period, we focused our research activities on
devising new mobility solutions, as well as developing expertise in
technological innovation that will make us even more competitive.
Our development activities focused on expanding our product range
and enhancing the functionality, quality, safety and environmental
compatibility of our products.
Our company’s long-term success also depends on how promptly
we identify risks and opportunities, and how systematically we comply with laws, regulations, ethical principles and our own voluntary
commitments. Thus prudent risk management, effective internal
monitoring systems and a stringent compliance organization are of
enormous importance to us. Not only do we set high standards within the Volkswagen Group, we also insist that all our suppliers along
our entire value chain comply with these standards.

The early identification of pioneering developments and trends in
the ever more complex fields of social, political, technological, environmental and economic activity represents an important basis
for innovation and thus for the success of our business. This aware­

31

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Management approach

MARKET DEVELOPMENTS
Our goal is to offer all customers the mobility and innovations they
need, strengthening our long-term market position in the process.
Our policy of adding maximum value at local level is a vital part of
this approach – and with good reason. Not only does it allow us to
reap numerous economic benefits, it also minimizes our risk exposure. In each case, we are an important local driver of growth, while
at the same time being in a better position to accommodate our
customers’ wishes.

In 2016, the pace of global economic growth was slightly slower
than in the previous year. By contrast, global demand for vehicles
was higher. Despite persistently difficult market conditions, the
Volkswagen Group delivered more than 10 million vehicles to
customers. In the reporting period, we launched a large number of
attractive new models on the market, some of which were based
on the Modular Transverse Toolkit (MQB). The current product portfolio comprises 336 models, covering almost all key segments and
body types, ranging from subcompact cars to supercars in the passenger car segment, from pickups to heavy trucks and buses in the
commercial vehicles segment, plus motorcycles. By taking account
of regional market and customer needs, we have systematically
geared our product portfolio to profitable growth.

SECTOR-SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENT
Sector-specific conditions were significantly influenced by fiscal policy measures, which made a substantial contribution to the mixed
trends in sales volumes in the various target markets during the 2015
financial year. The instruments used for this were tax reductions or
increases, incentive programs and sales incentives, as well as import
duties.

GLOBAL DEMAND FOR PASSENGER CARS HITS
NEW RECORD HIGH
In fiscal year 2016, the number of new passenger car registrations
rose to 81.1 million vehicles worldwide, exceeding the previous
year’s record by 5.4%. Demand was up in the Asia-Pacific, Western
Europe, North America and Central Europe regions, while new passenger car registrations in South America, Eastern Europe and Africa
failed to match the previous year’s levels.

Non-tariff trade barriers designed to protect various countries’ domestic automotive industries made the free movement of vehicles,
parts and components more difficult. Protectionist tendencies were
especially evident where markets were on the decline.
This is contributing to increased volatility in the global procurement
and sales markets. In response to this changing environment, we
intend to focus more strongly on high-growth segments and regions –
such as the economy segment in China and India. In particular, as
we continue to transform our core business, we will differentiate the
positioning of our Group brands more precisely and further optimize
our vehicle and powertrain portfolio as we target the most attractive,
fastest growing market segments. We will unveil more SUV models,
integrate digitalization more systematically into our products and provide important stimuli for the future through our e-mobility offerings.

We expect trends in the various regional passenger car markets to
vary considerably in 2017. Overall, growth in global demand for new
vehicles will probably be slower than in the reporting period.
The Volkswagen Group is well positioned to deal with the mixed
development of automotive markets around the world. Our broad,
selectively expanded product range features the latest generation
of engines as well as a variety of alternative drive technologies, putting us in a good position compared with our competitors.

Key Figures by Market1

32

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Management approach

QUALITY ASSURANCE
implement and comply with these and other new requirements, as
well as all relevant official regulations, we have developed guidelines,
tips and recommendations for our quality management consultants,
and provide support as they apply them in practice.

The quality of our products and services plays a key role in maintaining customer satisfaction. Customers are particularly satisfied
and remain loyal when their expectations of a product or service are
met or even exceeded. Throughout the product experience, appeal,
reliability and service are what determine quality as perceived by
the customer. Our objective is to positively surprise and excite our
customers in all areas and thus win them over with our outstanding
quality. We continued to aspire to this objective in the reporting period. The diesel issue has shown, however, that we must broaden our
previous understanding of quality. Quality assurance now checks the
compliance of our products even more intensively.

As a further step, we now apply the multiple internal controls principle – based on mutual support and cross-checks between divisions –
even more rigorously, and have developed important additional skills
in, for example, software security. This particularly affects the control
mechanisms between technical development and quality assurance
before and after the start of production. In product development, we
have introduced the same principle for the approval of power units.
And at the series production stage, we are now working even harder
to carry out conformity checks on our products with the participation
of all business units involved, performing assessments and making
decisions on this basis. This applies particularly to exhaust emissions
and fuel consumption.

We are also placing greater emphasis on our quality management
system than before, thereby reinforcing the process-driven approach
across all our business activities Group-wide. Quality management
in the Volkswagen Group is based on the ISO 9001 standard: we
must comply with the provisions of this standard to obtain type approval for producing and selling our vehicles. Following the revision
of the standard in 2015, we applied the new requirements to all
the Group’s locations and brands during the reporting period. One
key change in the standard concerns the assessment of risks in the
event of non-compliance with defined processes. To ensure that we

By taking these and other measures, quality assurance is ensuring
that we not only satisfy all legal requirements imposed on us as a
manufacturer, but that our products do so as well.

THE MODULAR STRATEGY
All Group brands are surging ahead with the development of electric
traction. We have expanded our expertise in this area by bringing
additional technical specialists and experts on board. Based on the
experience we have gained with existing vehicle architectures, we
designed the Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB) for the compact
segment. This can be deployed across multiple brands for passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles alike. The MEB means we can
now develop very exciting vehicles and supports ranges of 300 to
600 km (190 to 375 miles) in all-electric mode. It also makes it possible to factor in vehicle-specific requirements and achieve savings
by bundling volume purchases. Thanks to the Volkswagen Group’s
modular toolkit strategy, modules can be deployed across different
model series and brands, thus achieving substantial synergies. This
applies in particular to models that share the same platform. We
have integrated the production of electrified vehicles into the manufacturing processes at our existing plants, for example in Wolfsburg,
Emden, Bratislava, Ingolstadt and Leipzig. The electric motors are
manufactured at our plant in Kassel.

Our modular platforms and toolkits allow us enormous flexibility
in the design of our production facilities. The Modular Transverse
Toolkit (MQB) and Modular Production Toolkit (MPB) enable us to
cut development costs, manufacturing times and any necessary oneoff expenses, and can also be used over several vehicle generations.
The toolkits also allow us to use the same production systems in
the same plant to manufacture different models from different
brands in varying quantities. This means that we can use our capacities more flexibly throughout the entire Group, enabling us to
achieve efficiency gains.
In addition to conventional petrol (gasoline) and diesel engines, the
MQB also gives us the opportunity to integrate alternative powertrains, such as natural-gas, hybrid or electric drives. Previously, we
had to make individual, vehicle-specific adjustments to each model.
The MQB has created an extremely flexible vehicle architecture that
permits the specific dimensions stipulated by the design concept –
such as wheelbase, track width, wheel size and seat position – to be
harmonized throughout the Group and then applied in flexible ways.
Other dimensions, such as the distance between the pedals and
front wheel hubs, are always the same. This ensures that the front
of the car always conforms to the same system, making it easier
to exploit synergies. The MQB platform used across the Group was
installed in the eight millionth vehicle in late 2016.

In 2016, we presented our visionary I.D. concept vehicle. With a
range of up to 600 km (375 miles), the zero-emission vehicle is
scheduled for market launch in 2020, and represents the vanguard
of an entirely new fleet of highly innovative electric vehicles based on
the MEB platform.

33

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Product Responsibility

Product Responsibility
By taking full responsibility for our products, we aim to keep our customers as safe as possible on the road by offering
a comprehensive range of road-safety solutions and a broad spectrum of efficient, affordable and practical powertrain
technologies. The Volkswagen Group takes responsibility for the products supplied by all its brands. This responsibility
extends to passive and active safety systems, conservation of resources, and climate and environmental protection.
In particular, we are prioritizing the electrification of our vehicle fleet. One objective of our future program TOGETHER –
Strategy 2025 is to significantly increase the proportion of our total sales accounted for by all-electric cars over the next
few years. This will help us to further reduce carbon emissions and air pollution.

809,000 CARS FROM WOLFSBURG
In 2016, the Volkswagen plant in Wolfsburg produced
around 809,000 vehicles. The plant’s daily production
capacity now exceeds 3,800 vehicles.

INVESTMENT AND INNOVATION
business area, which will also be a core element of our TOGETHER
strategy. We want to redefine the whole concept of mobility, working closely with selected partners to accomplish this. The first step
in this direction is our investment in Gett, a ride-hailing service. Gett
is already operating in more than 100 cities, including major cities
such as New York, Moscow and London. One out of three taxis in the
British capital is already using the service to find new customers.

In 2016, the Volkswagen Group further extended its innovation
and technology leadership by investing in new models, environmentally compatible drive technologies and optimized production
processes. At the same time, we aim to step up the efficiency of
our cross-brand innovation management, as well as the networking of our brands’ development processes. By creating overarching
technology networks we avoid parallel developments and facilitate
efficient technology transfer, while simultaneously reducing our
development costs. At present, 46,000 highly qualified employees
are working on these projects in research and development facilities
around the world. The philosophy behind the Volkswagen Group’s
entire research and development effort is “Innovation for All”. The result will be new models with even more efficient powertrains. These
include electric cars powered entirely by battery, as well as plug-in
hybrids. Our core business as a whole is steadily shifting toward
electric propulsion as we pursue our electrification initiative, which
is second to none in the industry. And we are making the necessary
investments in research into and development of various types of
electric drive, suitable energy storage solutions, and series production of the relevant modules.

In December 2016, we also set up MOIA, a company dedicated to
new mobility solutions with a particular focus on ride hailing – the
instant provision of mobility services. Subsequently, we intend to
develop or acquire further attractive and prof-itable services tailored
to customer requirements, such as robot taxis, carsharing, and
on-demand transport services for the logistics industry. To achieve
this, we will rely – to a greater extent than hitherto – on partnerships, acquisitions and venture capital investments. The selection
of suitable investments will be managed centrally, with the aim of
generating maximum value for the Group and its brands.
Audi has reaffirmed its progress in the field of autonomous driving –
the Audi A7 piloted driving concept car, a research vehicle, is capable
not only of carrying out all freeway driving maneuvers on its own,
but also and more importantly, of respecting other road users while
doing so. “Piloted driving” is made possible by the zFAS driver assistance control unit, a central control system that uses state-of-theart, high-performance processors to evaluate signals from all sensors
in real time, continuously generating a model of the surrounding
environment. Long-range radar sensors, lane-keeping assistants and
laser scanners – not to mention a high-resolution, wide-angle 3D
video camera – enable the concept car to change lanes, overtake,
accelerate and brake on its own, without human intervention.

We see mobility as a holistic concept and bundle our mobility-­
related activities under the heading of “Smart Mobility”. Higher
efficiency, better connectivity and greater flexibility in turn create
safer, more comfortable and more environmentally compatible
mobility solutions, making an important contribution to the implementation of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). Examples of this approach include the development of driver
assistance systems, autonomous (“piloted”) driving and our IT labs.
To ensure that our approach to mobility remains consistently holistic,
we are pooling all these activities in our new Mobility Solutions

34

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Product Responsibility

Data:Lab in Munich is our center of expertise specializing in big
data, advanced analytics and machine learning. The Data:Lab team
consists of data scientists, project managers and technology wizards
who are supported by experts from leading big data firms, research
institutions and startup companies. Successful projects developed
by Data:Lab include forecasts of customer wishes and predictions of
customer loyalty, as well as a long-term, all-time forecast for spare
parts scheduling at our central depot in Kassel.

The g-tron model range also continues to grow; in addition to the
Audi A3 Sportback g-tron, Audi will soon bring two more CNG
models to market. The spring of 2017 saw the launch of the Audi A4
Avant g-tron and the Audi A5 Sportback g-tron. Compared to a
petrol-­engined car in the same performance class, Audi g-tron models produce 80% fewer CO2 emissions. They achieve this reduction
by running on Audi e-gas, a green fuel.
Volkswagen Group’s IT labs are responding to the digitalization trend.
They are islands of innovation, where new IT solutions are developed
in close collaboration with Group specialist departments, external
research institutions and technology partners. The labs act as test
laboratories for the Group as a whole, advise on questions about
future IT developments, and act as an interface with business startups.

We are also opening Digital:Lab in Berlin. Projects under development here include a digital mobility platform and systems for processing traffic-related information generated by vehicles. In addition,
we are expanding our Smart.Production:Lab in Wolfsburg, which
specializes in Industry 4.0 solutions with a particular focus on the
use of IT in production and logistics.

A WATCHFUL EYE
The new Passat features an optional head-up display (HuD) intended to improve
road safety. Trip data and alerts are projected onto a screen that slides out in the
driver’s field of vision. Drivers can thus keep their eyes on the road ahead while
simultaneously taking note of on-screen information that is seemingly displayed
two meters in front of the vehicle. Because alerts appear directly in the driver’s line
of sight, reaction times are reduced. And drivers’ eyes do not have to refocus so
often from far-field to near-field vision.

SAFE VEHICLES AND ROAD SAFETY
In best-case scenarios, the powerful, active systems produced by our
specialists help to avoid accidents from the outset. These include
emergency braking systems (such as Front Assist) and lane-keeping
systems (such as Lane Assist). Where the collision itself is unavoidable, a raft of passive systems avoids or mitigates the consequences
of the accident for vehicle occupants. In particular, the coordinated
interaction of the vehicle structure with the occupant retention system plays a central role. Our integral safety concept seamlessly combines passive and active systems. For example, following a collision
involving one of our new vehicles, a multi-collision brake is activated
to bring the stricken vehicle to a halt and avoid secondary collisions,
or at least reduce the energy released by the collision.

All our activities are geared to Vision Zero, which is to say zero
fatalities or severe injuries in and due to vehicles manufactured by
the Volkswagen Group. This has been and continues to be the key
objective for our work in this area. We take a holistic view of vehicle
safety, from avoiding accidents completely to reducing or avoiding
their consequences. The Group’s accident research departments play
a pivotal role in this work, reconstructing and evaluating accidents
in order to obtain information that will help boost future vehicle
safety – findings that feed directly into our vehicle development
activities, leading to new, user-oriented innovations.

35

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Product Responsibility

AIMS AND MEASURES TO IMPROVE SAFETY
The ultimate aim of our Vision Zero is: zero fatalities or severe injuries in and due
to vehicles manufactured by the Volkswagen Group. To progress toward this vision,
we have set ourselves the following goals:
§§ avoidable accidents should not happen,
§§ unavoidable accidents will be actively mitigated,
§§ the severity of accidents will be minimized.
To achieve these goals, the Group’s accident researchers collect data from real
traffic accidents. Their investigations include:
§§ technical analyses of the vehicles involved to establish the technical
severity of the accident,
§§ medical analyses of injuries suffered by people involved in the accident,
§§ psychological analyses of the circumstances surrounding the accident.
The findings of these analyses are used to develop measures to protect people
inside and outside the vehicle. These include the development of body shell
concepts, occupant retention systems and new driving assistance systems capable
of avoiding accidents or mitigating their consequences.

The Volkswagen Group is an active member of the German Road
Safety Council (DVR), contributing expertise and experience with
the aim of making mobility safer. We also take part in conferences
on vehicle safety around the world.

36

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Product Responsibility

EURO NCAP AND IIHS
Euro NCAP (European New Car Assessment Programme) and IIHS (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety) regularly test models built by the Volkswagen Group. The
following models were put through their paces in 2016:
§§ 5-star rating for Tiguan – Euro NCAP
§§ 5-star rating for SEAT – Euro NCAP
§§ 5-star rating for Audi Q2 – Euro NCAP
§§ Top Safety Pick plus for Audi A3, Audi A4 und Audi A6 – IIHS
§§ Top Safety Pick plus for Audi Q5 and Audi Q7 – IIHS
§§ Top Safety Pick plus for VW Golf, Golf SportWagen and Golf GTI – IIHS
§§ Top Safety Pick plus for VW Jetta and VW Passat – IIHS

PRODUCT SAFETY
stage, production, we bring the collective experience of our global,
cross-location network of product safety officers to bear. In their
work, they rely on lessons-learned processes to ensure that our products stay safe. Because the approach followed by our product safety
officers has proved its worth, we are now gradually implementing
it among our suppliers, hence along our entire supply chain.

Our customers attach the utmost importance to product safety. So
we take a meticulous approach to quality assurance along the entire
value chain, from purchasing right through to sales.
Right at the start, when a vehicle is first being developed, we use
standardized processes to exclude potential use risks. At the next

ODORS AND EMISSIONS FROM VEHICLE INTERIORS
The German automotive industry has been concerned about air quality inside
vehicle interiors since the mid-1980s. From the beginning, Volkswagen has played
a significant role in development work in this field. For good reason: odors and
emissions from plastic components inside the vehicle can cause people to feel
unwell, and in extreme cases may even be harmful to health. To avoid these issues,
we check the properties of the materials and components we use very carefully.
Our internal Group standard VW 50180 sets down our requirements for material
characteristics. Compliance with these requirements is partially verified while components are still being designed and developed. And suppliers must demonstrate
that they are complying with these requirements by the sample prototype inspection stage at the very latest. In the case of around 20% of the components used in
Group vehicles, suppliers’ compliance data is further verified in our laboratories.
In addition to checking materials and components, we also evaluate odors and
emissions in the passenger compartment when we start the manufacturing stage
of new concept vehicles and production vehicles.

37

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Product Responsibility

We have established quality specifications for the components and
operating fluids we use, focusing not only on their functional properties but also on the durability of the materials from which they
are made. These specifications provide the framework within which
Volkswagen’s materials specialists, for example, define and verify

components’ resistance to aggressive fuels and oils. They do this by
storing the components to be tested – ranging from individual seals
or gaskets through to complete fuel-delivery modules – in containers
filled with the appropriate test fluid.

INFORMATION AND LABELING
Volkswagen Group companies are obliged by law to provide users of their products
with appropriate information about the risks that may arise from their intended
use or foreseeable misuse. Group companies fulfil this obligation by providing
instruction manuals and in specific instances, placing warning stickers inside the
vehicle. Furthermore, since December 1, 2011, all passenger vehicles manufactured
in Germany must carry a weight-based efficiency label similar to the energy consumption labels used for household appliances. Efficiency ratings range from A+
(highly efficient) to G (inefficient). The label also informs users of fuel consumption,
annual fuel costs, CO2 emissions and annual tax charges under Germany’s CO2based vehicle tax. In the case of electric vehicles, the label provides information on
energy consumption. All our brands provide details of their models’ fuel consumption and CO2 emissions on their websites. Information on consumption figures and
emissions for all of the models mentioned in this report can be found in this table.
The Volkswagen and Audi brands also publish Environmental Commendations
describing improvements in the environmental performance of new vehicles and
technologies over their predecessors or reference models.

CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
The “Group KPI” platform is one important instrument supporting
the targeted management of value-creating measures for each of
our brands. It provides access to key indicators such as unit sales
growth and customer loyalty, while also allowing the brands to set
up their own indicators for tracking customer satisfaction.

Volkswagen knows that customer satisfaction is one of the most
important factors contributing to the lasting success of the Company. Customer satisfaction is benchmarked across all our brands using
standardized performance indicators: brand image, desirability,
future purchase consideration, product quality and brand communication awareness.

Brand Value Management at Volkswagen Group
Group covers KPI’s in five dimensions, going beyond basic brand image monitoring
SALES GROWTH

CUSTOMER LOYALTY

BRAND STRENGTH

BUDGET EFFICIENCY

BRAND PROGRESS

... to ensure direct contribution of marketing efforts to sales success

… to improve customer losses to Group external brands

... to ensure superior image and shape differentiation of Group brands
... to increase efficiency of >2,0 bn € Group marketing spendings

... to measure and ensure brand progress according to long-term strategy

38

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Local Value Added

customer loyalty in its core European markets for several years in
a row. However, the emissions issue had a negative impact on brand
image, brand trust, and customer satisfaction with products compared with 2015. The loyalty of Audi, Porsche and ŠKODA customers
has kept these brands in the upper rankings in comparison with
competitors for a number of years.

In terms of customer satisfaction with their products, Audi and
Porsche are leaders in the core European markets when compared
with other Group brands and with their competitors. The other
brands in the Group also score higher than competing brands.
In terms of customer satisfaction with dealers, all Group brands
achieve figures at or above the level of the competition. The
­Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand has maintained a high level of
We use market research studies to involve our customers in the
product development process as well. The studies help boost
customer satisfaction in the long term by providing us with
the customer perspective on our products and highlighting the
improvements they would like to see. We also ask for customer
feedback when evaluating prototypes prior to market launch.

Local Value Added
education, the sciences, health and sports, as well as structural
development and nature conservation in the regions (CSR projects
worldwide).

Local production in our most important sales markets is a core
element of our sustainable growth strategy. The benefits are clear:
Lower logistics costs, procurement prices in line with local market
conditions, elimination of import duties and immunity from volatile
exchange rates all contribute to the competitiveness of our brands
in these markets. And people in the regions benefit as well, because
we create skilled jobs and contribute to the development of local
economies by attracting supplier businesses to the areas around our
production locations. In Pune, India, for example, 69 new supplier
businesses have been founded since our plant was set up, creating
around 13,500 direct and indirect jobs. And thanks to the long-term
presence of partners at the Kaluga site, the plant there can now
draw on more than 60 local suppliers for the models produced.

And through our payment of taxes and duties, we help ensure that
state and municipal investments in infrastructure and public welfare
are possible in many parts of the world.

TAXES AND SUBSIDIES
We pay taxes wherever we add value. Worldwide, we paid around
€3.3 billion in income taxes; by far the largest proportion of this
was paid in Germany. In the 2016 fiscal year, the Volkswagen Group
received €435 million in performance-related public subsidies. Furthermore, government grants of €218 million were deducted from
the costs of property, plant and equipment, and another €12 million
in noncash benefits received were not capitalized as asset costs.

Creating jobs in our plants and with our suppliers and strengthening
regional economies is a key part of our growth strategy. But we don’t
stop there. As a major player in regional economies and with the aim
of actively promoting the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), we support local projects related to the arts, culture,

39

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

Supplier Management
As globalization continues to advance and value creation increasingly shifts toward our various sales markets, the Volkswagen Group’s
sustainability efforts do not stop at our factory gates. At 39 locations
in 23 countries, the Volkswagen Group’s procurement network
ensures that our production facilities are supplied with production

materials of the requisite quality and in the required quantities –
on a sustainable basis and at competitive prices. In the reporting
year, our procurement volume totaled €166.5 billion. These figures
include the data from our Chinese joint ventures.

Group Procurement Volume
in %

Asia-Pacific 29%

South America 2%
North America 5%

Europe/other markets 65%

Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from
Conflict-­Affected and High-Risk Areas into our supplier management
approach.

We share the responsibility associated with the globalization of our
procurement processes with our suppliers and their subcontractors
– responsibility for a successful future, for a fair and just society,
and for the environment. Only by working closely with our business
partners can we succeed in ensuring compliance with sustainability standards and thereby make a contribution toward achieving
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With
these objectives in mind, we rolled out our “Sustainability in
Supplier Relations” concept in 2006 and continue to develop it on
an ongoing basis. And in 2016, we began integrating the OECD Due

In this context, in 2016 we expanded our Code of Conduct for Business Partners to include a passage on our duty to promote respon­
sible supply chains for minerals from countries affected by conflict
or classified as high-risk. We also made corresponding revisions to
the Volkswagen Guideline on Raw Materials from Conflict Regions.

40

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

SUSTAINABILITY IN SUPPLIER RELATIONS
Not only do we include sustainability requirements in our supplier contracts, we also expect our suppliers to acknowledge these
sustainability requirements before submitting a quotation. This
explicit acknowledgement must be updated every twelve months.
These requirements have been integrated into our contracts with all
suppliers to General Procurement since November 2013, and into
our contracts with all suppliers of production materials since January
2014. They apply to all outsourced goods and services worldwide.

The Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept is based on the
“Volkswagen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its relationships with business partners (Code of Conduct for Business Partners)”. The latter formulate the Volkswagen Group’s expectations for
our business partners’ conduct with respect to key environmental,
social and compliance standards. By including contractual integration of sustainability requirements into the procurement process,
we aim to ensure compliance with our sustainability standards
along the entire supply chain worldwide. These requirements are
based on the principles of the UN Global Compact, the International
Chamber of Commerce’s Business Charter for Sustainable Development and the relevant conventions of the Inter­national Labour
Organization. They are supplemented by Volkswagen’s Environmental Policy, the environmental targets and regulations derived from
it, the Group’s Quality Policy and the Volkswagen Declaration on
Social Rights.

REQUIREMENTS

Our Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept rests on three
pillars: requirements, monitoring and development. We apply these
three benchmarks to the ongoing assessment and improvement of
our suppliers’ sustainability performance.

MONITORING

DEVELOPMENT

Environmental protection
Employees’ rights
Transparent business relationships
Fair behavior in the marketplace

Sustainability questionnaire
“Sustainability in Supplier Relations”
flag
Sustainability audits
Continuous dialog with suppliers

E-learning for suppliers and
purchasing staff
Face-to-face training courses
OEM workgroups
Dialog with external stakeholders

Requirements are contractually
mandated
Avoidance of conflict minerals

Verification of understanding and
implementation of requirements

Ongoing development of Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept

SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS
Among other data, the Volkswagen Group uses a country risk
analysis to obtain a clearer picture of social, environmental and
­human-rights risks in regions where potential suppliers operate
before entering into negotiations with them. This takes both third-­
party information and in-house empirical data into account.

In addition, the procurement risk management system constantly
monitors and analyzes the financial stability of our suppliers. A suite
of different processes is applied to help eliminate supply risks due
to supplier failure, but also to minimize the financial impact of crises
and insolvencies in the supply chain.

To identify current developments as well as long-term structural
challenges in each country, we rely on the ongoing dialog between
our brands and the regions during the regular meetings and video
conferences held by the Sustainability Procurement Network. This
network supports the continuous exchange of information between
20+ experts in our Group procurement organizations around the
world.

Among other activities, our early-warning systems also screen, for
example, press and Internet coverage of relevant sustainability
issues. Relevant information is passed on to the appropriate Procurement centers to support internal processes and decision-making.
The Volkswagen Group expects its suppliers to avoid the use of any
materials made from the smelted ores of conflict minerals. Minerals
are considered conflict minerals if non-governmental armed groups
are supported directly or indirectly through their extraction, transportation, trade, handling, processing or export.

The Volkswagen Group also subjects all potential new business partners and suppliers to an integrity check (Business Partner Check).
By examining the social integrity of potential business partners, we
aim to reduce the risk of forming relationships that could adversely
affect the Group and its business.

Information regarding the facilities used by suppliers or their
­subcontractors for the smelting or refining of minerals such as tin,

41

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

For this purpose, Volkswagen recommends using the standardized
conflict minerals reporting template made available by the conflict-free sourcing initiative (cfsi). Based on the cfsi data, Volkswagen
will inform suppliers who have business relationships with non-­
compliant smelters and/or refiners about alternative options for
working with conflict-free smelters and/or refiners.

tantalum, tungsten or gold must be disclosed to the Volkswagen
Group upon request.
We call on our suppliers to practice due diligence along the supply
chain. This includes the implementation of measures to ensure that
the minerals used by the suppliers – in particular tantalum, tin,
tungsten and gold – do not directly or indirectly promote or support
armed conflicts.

SUPPLIER MONITORING
§§ employee rights

In the course of the business process, our business partners are
required to complete our sustainability questionnaire and to
document their activities relating to selected areas of responsibility.
The questionnaire covers the following areas of relevance to
Volkswagen AG:

§§ transparent business relationships
By the end of the reporting year, 21,067 of our suppliers had submitted responses to our questionnaire. This covers 88% of our total
procurement volume.

§§ cooperation and collaboration (also with subcontractors)
§§ environmental responsibility

Status of Sustainability Questionnaire

We also expect our suppliers to take active responsibility for themselves. In the field of environmental protection, we require our main
suppliers to put in place a certified environmental management
system in accordance with ISO 14001 and/or EMAS; to date, 87% of
our suppliers have documented such a system. As part of the EMAS
and ISO 14001 environmental certification and auditing procedures
at Volkswagen AG sites, the contractors and suppliers who work on
the site premises and have an environmental impact are also subject
to regular audits. In addition, we expect our suppliers to have a
certified occupational health and safety management system that
complies with OHSAS 18001, SA8000 and/or AA1000.

We are transferring our sustainability questionnaire over to the
self-assessment questionnaire developed for use throughout the industry in a joint project with other automotive corporations involved
in the European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability organized by CSR Europe. We use the responses to these
self-assessments to help identify measures to improve performance,
and then communicate the latter to our suppliers. This means we are
able to give our suppliers specific, needs-based recommendations
for improving their sustainability performance.
Alongside the well-established Volkswagen survey, in the reporting
year 1,336 of our suppliers filled out this multi-OEM industry
questionnaire, which also includes questions addressing the issue
of conflict minerals.

42

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

Procurement Volume-based Proportion of
Environmental and Social Certification of Main Suppliers

tation. In the event of serious compliance violations by a supplier,
we open an “ad-hoc case”. In 2016, an independent external services
provider carried out a total of 45 audits, resulting in 19 ad-hoc cases.
This demonstrates the effectiveness of this instrument and helps us
to take action in more targeted, efficient ways.

Selected business partners identified by the self-assessments or
internal analysis system as being at increased risk of non-compliance with sustainability requirements are subjected to third-party
sustainability audits, which cover all aspects of our sustainability
requirements and include interviews with employees of the selected
suppliers.
Should the audit uncover non-compliance or areas requiring
improvement, we work with the supplier to develop a program of
measures for improving the situation and assist with its implemen-

Audits and Ad-hoc Cases by Continent

43

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

Where there is an ad-hoc case or suspected case of non-compliance, the implementation of a series of remedial measures is
coordinated by the ad-hoc expert team from the relevant brand
or region, in turn coordinated and supported by the Group’s team
of ad-hoc experts in Wolfsburg.

If there is reason to suspect that tier 1 suppliers or their subcontractors are failing to comply with our sustainability requirements,
we ask the party concerned for a written statement using a standardized report (6D Report). Based on the six points we specify in
the report, our business partners can describe the status quo and
any remedial measures. If the answers prove unsatisfactory, we take
further appropriate steps, such as the examination of documents,
visits to the supplier’s premises or other customized supplier development activities.

AD-HOC EXPERT TEAM:

EXAMPLES OF AD-HOC CASES:

Every brand and every region has set up an ad-hoc expert
team. Team members include experts from specialized
fields such as occupational safety, occupational health,
environment and personnel. This approach helps us to cover
all issues which could potentially arise in ad-hoc cases, and
to address them efficiently. By this means we were able to
agree on specific improvement measures with affected suppliers during the reporting year, resulting in an optimization
in their sustainability performance. The ad-hoc expert team
in Wolfsburg plays a supporting and coordinating role in
this process.

In 2016, we worked with selected suppliers to address
challenges involved in complying with sustainability
requirements in their management of subcontractors. Due
to the complexity of the supply chains involved, we are
continuing to work on these issues with these suppliers in
2017.
In another case, a third-party CSR audit documented
non-compliance with our working-hours policy. We
worked with the supplier to develop an action plan, and
the implementation of this plan was monitored by the
responsible ad-hoc expert team. Ultimately, this approach
succeeded in establishing a process that will ensure this
supplier complies with our policy on working hours.

Ad-hoc Cases in 2016
Group pocurement in total

44

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

The internal and external point of contact for suspected cases of
non-compliance with our sustainability requirements – especially
where violations of human rights are concerned – is the e-mail
address sustainability@vwgroupsupply.com.

In addition to these ad-hoc cases, the Internal Audit function uncovered an additional 83 cases which resulted in measures being agreed
with suppliers. These cases involved supplier conduct that failed
to comply with regulatory or contractual requirements which was
either reported by individuals or discovered in the course of regular
program audits.

In addition, both employees and third parties can address possible
cases of non-compliance via the Volkswagen Group’s national and
international employee representation bodies, as well as national
and international trade union federations. The Volkswagen Group’s
worldwide ombudsman system can also be used to confidentially
report irregularities to two external lawyers appointed by the Group.
Since 2014, it has also been possible for information providers to
communicate anonymously with the ombudsmen via an online
channel.

Because of these infringements and the abovementioned ad-hoc
cases, 39 business relationships were terminated in the reporting
period. The increase in terminated business relationships is closely
related to procedures initiated in response to the results of audits by
the Internal Audit function.

SUPPLIER TRAINING
on sustainability available in all languages of the countries which
have been defined as compliance risks. To successfully complete the
module, suppliers must pass a final test. We made further progress here in 2016, with 25.000 suppliers – representing 82% of the
procurement volume – completing the e-learning module by the
end of the reporting year. For training purposes, this tool is available
both to the supplier’s workforce and to employees of Volkswagen AG
Procurement.

To anchor the Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept more
firmly throughout the Group, we are making employees more aware
of and providing training in sustainability issues. The concept of
“sustainability in the supply chain” is an established part of the skills
profile for all Procurement employees. In 2016, more than 950 purchasing staff worldwide were given training in this area.
To facilitate ongoing supplier development, in the course of our business relations we make an electronic learning (e-learning) module

Status of Sustainability e-Learning

Through our involvement in national and international industry
and sector associations, we are also working with other automotive
manufacturers to create shared communication platforms with the
aim of driving forward sustainability in the supply chain. Volkswagen
Group is a member of, for example, the German Association of the
Automotive Industry (VDA) and econsense – the Forum for Sustainable Development of German Business, and is also part of the
Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG). Audi AG is also involved
in the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative.

Alongside the e-learning format, we also conduct topic-specific
sustainability training courses and workshops with our suppliers at
selected locations. During the reporting period, training events
were organized in countries such as Argentina, Brazil, China, South
Africa and the U.S. In total, 1,300 employees of more than 800 of
our suppliers were given training on sustainability issues. The main
focus of these events was on the “Social rights of employees”. Some
of these training activities were organized in cooperation with other
automotive manufacturers under the auspices of the European
Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability.

In the European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain
Sustainability, part of the European Business Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Europe), we are working to develop
recognized frames of reference for companies in the automotive
industry. In collaboration with other members of this working
group, we have developed an industry-wide self-assessment
questionnaire on sustainability performance, and offered related
training courses to suppliers.

We also organize stakeholder dialogs in order to discuss the concept
of and structures required to apply our sustainability standards.
This informed exchange of ideas with representatives of political
and governmental organizations, civil society, research institutions
and NGOs, as well as other companies and our suppliers, ensures
the continuous development of our concept. One such discussion of
issues surrounding sustainability in supplier relations took place on
March 1 of the reporting year.

45

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Supplier Management

As part of our efforts to work with our suppliers to minimize the
negative environmental impacts of our vehicles, Volkswagen joined
the CDP Supply Chain Program in 2015. We foster direct contact with
our suppliers by organizing specialist workshops in which we discuss
and develop joint, innovative approaches for the environmental
optimization of certain components.

In the context of our VDA activities, the VDA issued a “Recommendation for guiding principles in the automotive industry for improving
sustainability in the supply chain” for the first time in 2016. These
guiding principles not only advocate more sustainability in the supply chain, but also recommend the use of the standardized self-assessment questionnaire developed by the European Working Group
on Supply Chain Sustainability. We hope that this will also encourage our direct suppliers to make greater use of this questionnaire for
their subcontractors.

The Future Automotive Supply Tracks (FAST) initiative also plays
a key role in our supplier development strategy. FAST is Group
Procurement’s core initiative for developing the Volkswagen Group
and its supply network, both to ensure a strong future and to involve
suppliers in key goals earlier and more intensively. In addition to
innovation and globalization, the FAST dialogs also focus on sustainability issues.

In the reporting year, as part of our implementation of the OECD’s
Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, the Volkswagen Group
of America became a member of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative.

SUMMARY
experts or by external audits on suppliers’ premises, as outlined
above. In the event of non-compliance with our sustainability requirements, in extreme cases we will terminate the business relationship,
especially if the supplier shows no interest in improvement. Our
top priority, however, is to create a sustainable supply chain by
encouraging proactive compliance with our sustainability requirements through dialog with and the ongoing development of our
business partners.

Throughout all process steps and supplier development measures,
our top priority is to maintain a balanced dialog in a fair-minded
spirit of partnership. Keeping this key objective of ongoing, sustainable collaboration firmly in mind, we work with our suppliers to find
even more opportunities to improve sustainability, such as boosting
resource efficiency and continuously improving working conditions.
The Volkswagen Group reserves the right to verify business partners’
compliance with our sustainability requirements, either by in-house

Together with our suppliers, we aim to become even better!

OUTLOOK FOR 2017
In 2017, we plan to perform the same number of sustainability
audits as in 2016, supplemented by a pilot process for on-site assessment of compliance with our sustainability requirements.

respect to certain selected raw materials, we intend to work with
the relevant business partners to identify ways of creating greater
transparency along the supply chain.

Moreover, our objectives for 2017 include the provision of training that aims to continuously build our suppliers’ and employees’
awareness of and capacity to engage with sustainability issues.

With respect to reducing CO2 emissions, we are intending to implement a project for closed-loop aluminium scrap recycling. In addition
to conserving resources, this project will also lower the carbon footprint associated with the use of aluminium sheeting.

We also intend to step up our engagement in industry-wide working
groups and initiatives. In particular, we plan to continue rolling
out the self-assessment questionnaire developed by the CSR Europe
working group and use its findings to further enhance the processes
of the Volkswagen Group procurement network. Furthermore, with

And in the area of collaborative initiatives, in 2017 we will be lead
partner in the DRIVE Sustainability initiative.

46

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Integrity

Integrity
The Volkswagen AG is currently undergoing the most far-reaching process of change in the Company’s history. Painful
experience, especially the massive loss of trust that followed the diesel crisis, has made it clear that when it comes
to integrity, our primary aim must be to become a role model for a modern, transparent and successful enterprise. This
intention represents one of the key objectives of our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025.

“TOGETHER – Strategy 2025” Objectives

47

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Integrity

tions, they will support our efforts to fulfil our social responsibilities,
promote integrity, foster our stakeholder dialog, and help drive the
steady, sustainable progress of our corporate development.

On January 1, 2016, the Volkswagen Group created a new Board of
Management position for “Integrity and Legal Affairs”, laying the
organizational groundwork for centralized integrity management
across the Group.

Together, we intend to live by a new, partnership-based culture of integrity in which we can all believe, and of which we can all be proud.

The integrity management function is responsible for planning, preparing and implementing programs and projects aimed at raising,
clarifying and intensifying a collective awareness of integrity, as
well as reinforcing a shared culture of integrity within the Company.
Key components of the integrity management function include a
continuous exchange of ideas and dialog concerning integrity-related issues.

INTEGRITY PROGRAM
The Volkswagen Group’s goal is to enhance the culture of integrity in
the Company and create a collective awareness of integrity. To this
end, in 2016 we launched an integrity campaign that included in a
series of activities designed to encourage all employees to engage
with the topic of integrity. At the end of December 2016, we moved
from the integrity campaign to a multi-dimensional integrity program that is based on six action areas:

Because we value a neutral outside perspective, in October 2015
the Volkswagen Group appointed a Sustainability Council of leading
experts in research, academia, science and politics. Their remit is to
provide advice on, among other things, questions of business ethics
and integrity. With their independent expertise and recommenda-

The Six Action Areas of the Integrity Program
SOUNDING BOARD PROGRAM
Volunteer integrity ambassadors from all
divisions and levels of the hierarchy.
Looking at things from employees’ perspective.
Active interface between specialist departments and integrity management function.

DIALOG & COMMUNICATION
Ongoing dialog on integrity made
possible by focused involvement of
employees.
Dialog &
Communication

Sounding
Board
Program

Executive
Program
Strengthening the culture of integrity
Processes &
Tools

INTERNATIONALIZATION
Planning and executing the expansion
of the integrity program to brands,
companies, regions, and locations.

Internationalization

Monitoring
& Reporting

48

EXECUTIVE PROGRAM
Taking actions to hone managers’
ability to function as role models.

PROCESSES & TOOLS
Embedding integrity in existing
processes (e.g. personnel processes).

MONITORING & REPORTING
Measuring and communicating the effectiveness and cultural impact of activities
initiated under the integrity program.

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Integrity

EXECUTIVE PROGRAM

Ethical behavior is a prerequisite for the business success and
successful future of our Company. Only with enduring and dependable integrity can the Company gain and strengthen the trust of its
employees, customers, shareholders and business partners. Each
and every one of our employees – and especially our managers – is
asked to ensure that integrity becomes an integral part of our daily
working lives.

The entire Group Board of Management signed a letter to all
executives and managers in the Company, clearly emphasizing the
responsibility of each and every member of management to serve
as a role model for integrity. The topic of integrity has also been high
on the agenda at many management meetings, including the Global
Top Management Conference, the Governance, Risk and Compliance
Global Conference, and other Group management information
events.

DIALOG & COMMUNICATION
In September 2016, we launched an intensive communication
cam­paign in Wolfsburg. In the first phase, we raised employee
awareness of the topic of integrity by deploying visual messages on
posters, displays and monitors throughout the production site. This
was followed by a second phase in which employees were actively
included in the dialog, and various participatory activities such
as an employee survey were conducted as part of a special event at
a works meeting. Next, we accepted volunteers from all parts of the
company and levels of the hierarchy as Integrity Ambassadors for
our Sounding Board program.

PROCESSES & TOOLS
As part of our sustainability drive, and with the aim of establishing
integrity as the bedrock of our business practices, we are also integrating ethical practices into our personnel recruitment and training
processes.
And by including a question about ethics in our annual employee
opinion survey, we hope to be able to draw conclusions about the
culture of integrity at Volkswagen and identify when there is a concrete need for action to address a specific issue

MONITORING & REPORTING
Regular monitoring of the measures defined in each action area
helps us to fine-tune and readjust our integrity program. Our own
reporting on the effectiveness of measures that have been implemented also plays an important role.

INTERNATIONALIZATION

SOUNDING-BOARD-PROGRAM

Since October 2016, the Group integrity management function has
been working closely with the brands and companies to plan, formulate and roll out the successive expansion of the integrity program.
The employees responsible for governance, risk and compliance
within the brands and companies are playing an important role in
this process.

Through the Integrity Ambassadors, the Sounding Board program
ensures close collaboration and dialog between the integrity management team and the workforce.
In Wolfsburg, 140 Integrity Ambassadors for the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand are already playing an active role in our transformation
process by acting as liaisons in their departments, communicating
the importance of integrity, encouraging networking and actively
supporting our culture of integrity. Our goal is to establish permanent
lines of communication between our employees and the integrity
management team. We also look to the Integrity Ambassadors to help
us analyze ethical dilemmas which may arise in our specialist departments and spotlight positive examples of ethical behavior within the
Company.
In addition, the Sounding Board program also organizes several
interactive events each quarter which provide a platform for the
ambassadors to actively share ideas with the integrity management
function and the Board Member for Integrity and Legal Affairs.

49

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Compliance

Compliance
The Group’s Internal Audit, Security, Personnel Management and
Legal departments are responsible for investigative measures and
responses.

In the long term, a company can only be successful if it acts with
integrity, complies with statutory provisions worldwide and stands
by its voluntary undertakings and ethical principles, even when
this is the harder choice.

Since January 2016, the Group Chief Compliance Officer has reported
directly to the Board Member for Integrity and Legal Affairs. The
Group Chief Compliance Officer is supported in his work by 14 Chief
Compliance Officers (responsible for the brands, Volkswagen Financial
Services and Porsche Holding GmbH in Salzburg, Austria), who are in
turn assisted by Compliance Officers in the Group companies. The
compliance organization is networked together by various arrangements, including regional workshops. One networking event held in
the organization in the reporting year was a major Governance, Risk
& Compliance (GRC) Global Conference in Berlin. It was attended
by some 300 employees from 30 nations and all Group brands, who
shared their ideas in workshops and presentations focusing on
current and upcoming issues in compliance and risk management.

We remain committed to this principle – especially in light of the
misconduct uncovered in the 2015 fiscal year, which runs contrary
to all of the values that Volkswagen stands for. Compliance must
be second nature to all Group employees.
By raising awareness and educating employees, Volkswagen aims to
prevent potential breaches before they occur. Nevertheless, we are
aware that even the best compliance management system can never
entirely prevent criminal actions by individuals.
The principles set down in the Volkswagen Group’s Code of Conduct
are of essential importance here. These guidelines have been
communicated and can be accessed by all Group employees via the
Volkswagen portal, and on the web pages of the Volkswagen Group.

Various bodies support the work of the compliance organization
at Group and brand company level. These include the Compliance
Board at senior management level and the core Compliance team,
which pools Group expertise in compliance issues.

In 2016, the CEO of Volkswagen AG, Matthias Müller, made the following statement
at a management meeting in Wolfsburg

“We want to make integrity the fundamental bedrock
of everything we do across the entire Group. With this
aim, we will redouble our Group-wide efforts to comply
with regulations and legislation.” He continued:
“Compliance is not a job for a single individual or
department. It is something that as managers, we must
all treat as an integral part of our responsibilities.”

COMPLIANCE AT VOLKSWAGEN
remedial measures were reported by more than 100 units; more
than 500 tests were staged within Group companies to evaluate
the effectiveness of these measures. Based on the findings of
such tests, preventive measures are drawn up and the appropriate
compliance programs defined. During the selection process for
new production locations, Group Production assesses the sites
with a view to identifying potential corruption risks, among others.

Volkswagen applies a holistic approach to compliance which integrates its compliance management system (CMS), risk management system (RMS) and internal control system (ICS). One way to
identify and assess potential compliance risks is to use a standard
process that is now in place across the Group. Thanks to this pro­
cess for cataloging systemic risks, in the reporting year more than
2,400 assessments of potential compliance risks and the relevant

50

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Compliance

COMPLIANCE MEASURES
The structure and procedures of the Volkswagen Group whistleblowing system have been completely reorganized. A guideline issued
by the Group’s Board of Management sets out clear protections for
both information providers and those under investigation. As of
2017, the Board Member for Integrity and Legal Affairs is responsible
for the process of recording and analyzing the information reported
by whistleblowers. As before, Group Internal Audit and Group Security are responsible for investigations.

In response to the diesel crisis, we have developed activities targeting
improved product compliance in the development and production
process, as well as in quality assurance. Furthermore, development
processes have been designed in such a way that even an attempt
to circumvent mandatory regulations is easier to identify and prevent
at an early stage. In this context, we have further strengthened conformity assessments for our products, among other things.
What is more, in the reporting period we expanded the range of
services for providing our employees with advice and support, extending our advisory services and our range of online tutorials.
We also published a new information guide for our staff on how
to prevent money laundering.

PREVENTION THROUGH INFORMATION
To raise awareness of the importance of compliance, since 2010 all
new employment contracts entered into between Volkswagen AG on
the one part, and both management staff and employees covered by
collective agreements on the other, have included a reference to the
Code of Conduct plus the obligation to comply with it. Completion
of the online training module on the Code of Conduct is mandatory
for all new employees. Since 2014, compliance with the Code of
Conduct has been a factor in calculating employees’ variable, performance-related pay component.

business partners and members of our governance bodies on the
Volkswagen portal as well as the Internet.

By means of appropriate preventive measures integrated in our
existing management system, we foster compliance with the rules
within our organization and sharpen our employees’ awareness.
However, we are also aware that the risk of individual misconduct
can never be completely eliminated. To raise employee awareness of
compliance-related issues, we use both traditional communication
channels such as employee magazines and information stands, and
electronic media such as intranet portals, apps, blogs, audio-podcasts and online newsletters and guidelines. For example, our Anti-­
Corrup­tion Guidelines are available worldwide to all employees,

In 2016, around 187,000 employees across the Group took part in
more than 6,000 classroom and e-learning courses on the topics of
compliance in general, as well as money laundering, the Code of
Conduct, competition and antitrust legislation, human rights and
combating corruption. Online e-learning programs and classroom
training courses are firmly anchored in existing corporate processes.
Employees of Volkswagen AG, all brand companies and a large number of Group companies are able to obtain personal advice about
compliance issues by contacting the compliance organization via a
dedicated e-mail address.

Business partners of the Volkswagen Group are subject to a Business
Partner Check, a risk-oriented assessment of their integrity. With the
aid of the “Volkswagen Group requirements regarding sustainability
in its relationships with business partners” (Code of Conduct for
business partners), we raise supplier awareness of issues such as
human rights.

51

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Compliance

E-Learning program and classroom training courses*

Across all regions, 6,049 managers participated in classroom training
and e-learning courses on combating corruption.

CHECKS, AUDITS AND SANCTIONS
All such reports are followed up. For all breaches of the law and violations of internal regulations, necessary sanctions are first reviewed
and then applied where necessary. In 2016, action was taken against
a total of 121 employees across the Volkswagen Group as a result
of the findings of investigations based on information received as
described above. In 53 of these cases worldwide, the employee’s contract was terminated. Moreover, in the reporting year, following special audits that were based on information received, ten contracts
with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to
non-compliance with contractual conditions for avoiding corruption.

Group Internal Audit regularly and systematically reviews processes
within the Company, using approaches such as the internationally
recognized COSO Enterprise Risk Management framework. It also
carries out random checks irrespective of any suspicion of non-compliance and investigates whenever actual breaches are suspected.
The worldwide ombudsman system in place since 2006 can be used
to confidentially report corruption, fraudulent activities or other serious irregularities (such as human rights violations or ethical misconduct) in 11 different languages to two external lawyers appointed by
the Group. Naturally, the people providing the information need not
fear being punished by the Company for doing so.

A risk-oriented assessment of the Group’s core business processes
provides the basis for the auditing program of Group Internal Audit,
the China region, and the eight other Group Audit departments operated by brands with local audit functions. The business processes
of all Volkswagen Group companies are systematically classified in
terms of risks which, in the auditors’ view, are relevant to the audit.
The issues with the highest risk levels are incorporated into the
auditing programs. In 2016, a total of 1,274 audits were conducted
across the Volkswagen Group worldwide. Among other things, these
audits examine internal control mechanisms for the prevention
of corruption (dual-control principle, segregation of functions),
the existence of compliance guidelines and preventive measures.

As of December 2014, there is also the option of using an additional
online channel to communicate with the ombudsmen. A technically
secure digital mailbox allows suspected breaches to be reported –
anonymously, if so desired. After checking them for plausibility, in
2016 the ombudsmen passed on 125 reports to the Volkswagen
Group’s Anti-Corruption Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit;
the identities of the individuals providing the information were
kept confidential if requested. In addition, information on a further
110 cases was given directly to the Anti-Corruption Officer. During
local internal audits of the brands and Group companies, 481 reports
were submitted to the Anti-Corruption Officer.
52

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Economy Ratings and Indices

quality assessment of the Volkswagen Group’s internal audit system
was carried out by an audit firm in the period between the third
quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015. In addition to central
management and supervisory processes, this took into consideration
the quality of the brands’ and regions’ internal audit functions (sample size: Volkswagen AG, AUDI AG, SEAT S.A., Volkswagen de Mexico,
Volkswagen Group China). The audit firm confirmed that all the
internal audit units examined are fully compliant with the underlying DIIR Standard No. 3 “Quality management in the internal audit
activity” and in many areas, use leading internal audit methodologies
and practices. In 2016, the internal quality management function
also saw further development, and a continuous improvement process was initiated under the auspices of Group Internal Audit.

Another aspect of the audit function is advising the Volkswagen
Group’s specialist departments. In particular, this advisory activity
helps to define processes, ensure they are designed in compliance
with internal standards, and that they can be applied worldwide.
In addition, a Continuous Auditing System has been installed. This
function is responsible for, among other things, using structured
analysis of data in the financial systems to boost the effectiveness
of the Internal Control System (ICS). The continuous auditing procedures help to identify specific weak points in the ICS more rapidly
and so avoid losses.
In accordance with the normative standards issued by the German
Institute for Internal Auditing (DIIR), internal audit functions should
be audited externally at least once every five years. An external

Ratings and Indices
but also helps make a company more attractive as an employer and
boosts the motivation of its employees.

Because analysts and investors view corporate social responsibility
(CSR) and sustainability as key indicators of forward-looking
corporate governance, their recommendations and decisions are
increasingly based on factors that include companies’ CSR and
sustainability profiles. They look to sustainability ratings in particular
to evaluate a company’s performance in terms of environmental
compatibility, social responsibility and economy. Achieving top
marks in these ratings not only sends a clear signal to stakeholders,

Before the emissions issue, Volkswagen held leading positions in
sustainability rankings and indices such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project, Sustainalytics
and oekom research. However, Volkswagen has now been downgraded or removed from these ratings.

53

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Shaping Change

People
Shaping Change
Across its 12 brands, the Volkswagen Group aims to be an attractive employer and a good partner for society. Reliability,
trustworthiness and fairness are our watchwords – no matter whether we are talking to individual employees, negotiating with collective representative bodies, collaborating with regional partners in local infrastructure development
projects, or cooperating with civil society initiatives and associations.
Our human resources strategy seeks to ensure that the Group and our workforce are well placed to adapt to the ever
more rapidly evolving challenges of the networked digital world. The in-service training we offer enables our employees
to keep their knowledge and skills up to date, while individual health programs boost their fitness and performance
levels. Our newly introduced Diversity Policy is helping to promote culture change and equal opportunities. And through
our involvement in numerous social projects around the globe, we are ensuring our company is firmly anchored in local
communities.
As a global enterprise with 120 production sites across Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa, we have wide-ranging
experience of cultural differences, approaches and world views. Our company is committed to respect, tolerance and
openness, and we ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for all our employees around the world. We also
engage with stakeholders in numerous ways to promote the sustainable development of the towns, cities and regions
in which we operate.

54

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Management Approach

Management Approach
For 70 years now, industrial relations at Volkswagen have been guided
by a social pact that enables employees and their elected represent­
atives to exercise their long-established and extensive rights to have
a say in the running of the company. From this a unique model for
the cooperative resolution of disagreements between the social partners has evolved. In its human resources policies, ­Volkswagen explicitly realizes the potential of this model with its focus on conciliation,
consensus and continuity in order to

On launching its TOGETHER 2025 strategy in October 2016, the
Volkswagen Group also approved a new “We empower to perform”
human resources strategy with five overarching objectives for personnel management:

§§ appropriately remunerate good performance,

§§ Highly skilled, dedicated employees strive for excellence in terms
of innovation, added value and customer focus.

§§ The Volkswagen Group aims to be an excellent employer across
all its brands and companies worldwide.

§§ benefit from the careful selection and long-term service
of employees to maximize upskilling,

§§ Sustainable work practices ensure optimal working conditions
in factories and offices.

§§ capitalize on workers’ consultation rights to help drive
continuous improvement processes, and

§§ An exemplary corporate culture creates a work climate characterized by openness, mutual trust and cooperation.

§§ systematically harness the team spirit of our workforce to
achieve our strategic goals.

§§ While striving for operational excellence and strategic added value,
personnel management within the Group is strongly focused on
employees.

This approach is founded on our conviction that sustainably excellent
performance is only possible if the company is seen to be an attractive employer which, as well as providing a safe workplace where the
latest tools are used, offers employees stimulating work, optimally
supports them as individuals and is well integrated in society.

THE FIVE OBJECTIVES OF THE
“WE EMPOWER TO PERFORM” STRATEGY
collaborative robots will take on heavy lifting work in factories in the
future and digital processes will simplify many administrative tasks.

With its new “We empower to perform” strategy, the Volkswagen
Group is continuing to pursue the successful key tenets of its human
resources policy. As well as seeking to appropriately balance performance and remuneration, these include its strong stakeholder focus,
comprehensive employee participation rights, excellent training
opportunities and systematic retention programs. The new human
resources strategy is also setting innovative new trends: modern
forms of work such as agile working – where managers and team
members work together to increase the efficiency with which all
tasks are performed – are set to be expanded on many fronts, while

By 2020, the Volkswagen Group will roll out a diversity management
system, not only to ensure that men and women are treated equally,
but also to prevent other forms of discrimination – against people
with performance impairments, for example – and to support the
development of each individual employee in accordance with their
own particular abilities. In addition, culture change initiatives are
already underway to establish flatter hierarchies, a more open form
55

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Excellent Employer

industry, where we are seeing the automobile world undergoing
the greatest period of disruption in its history. Our human resources
strategy is designed to help the Volkswagen Group become a global
leader in mobility on a long-term profitable and sustainable basis. At
the core of this strategy is our mission to be an excellent employer.
In setting ourselves this strategic objective, we are expressly underscoring our intention to remain, well into the future, an outstanding
employer whose skilled and high-performing workforce is at the
forefront of the automotive value chain.

of collaboration and a greater focus on the big picture within the
Company’s divisions. To benefit both the Group and its employees,
working times and locations are also set to become more flexible.
More weight will be attached to social sustainability and it will be
systematically incorporated into our human resources strategy: in
the future, personnel management will more quickly and consistently reflect social and cultural megatrends, such as employees’
aspirations to participate in decision-making for instance. The traditional focus of personnel management – such as providing optimal
support and training opportunities for employees along with the
careful planning and deployment of human resources – will also
continue to apply.

A first-rate team of this kind does not just come about by accident,
however. It is the product of extensive investment and carefully
developed concepts for training, upskilling, employee support and –
last but by no means least – maintaining and improving health and
fitness.

We have developed our “We empower to perform” strategy against
the backdrop of a rapidly changing situation in the automotive

Strategic Objective:
Excellent Employer
We may not always succeed in uniting these different perspectives in
everyday life, but we are evidently succeeding more and more often –
despite the diesel crisis, in 2016 we received a number of awards for
being an attractive employer and topped various employer rankings.
For instance, the Volkswagen Group ranked third among engineering, IT and business graduates in the trendence institute’s survey of
the most attractive employers in Europe. And, as in the previous year,
trendence’s poll of over 300,000 engineering, IT and business graduates from a total of 24 European countries voted the Volkswagen
Group the most popular employer in the automotive sector.

Seeking to be an attractive employer is not an end in itself. We will
only be able to sustain the enduring commitment and motivation
of our employees if we keep the promises we have made about the
working conditions in our company. And only if we can make these
promises visible, credible and transparent to the outside world will
we be perceived as attractive in an increasingly competitive talent
market and consequently be able to attract the best people to the
company.

In 2016, trendence’s Young Professionals Barometer, which measures the career aspirations and expectations of some 10,000 young
professionals with up to eight years’ work experience from across
all sectors, ranked our Audi brand third and our sports car maker
Porsche sixth. In the wake of the diesel scandal, the Volkswagen
brand saw a drop in its popularity from 16th to 31st. In a similar survey carried out by the Universum market research institute in which
experienced engineers were asked to state their ideal employer,
Audi took second place while Porsche came third. The Volkswagen
brand ranked seventh.

The “We empower to perform” strategy fuses these two perspectives
by seamlessly integrating our consistent promise as an employer
with the employee experience, i.e. how our quality as an employer is
actually experienced on a day-to-day basis.

Among Czech graduates, trendence found ŠKODA Auto to be the most
popular employer. In a number of other countries, including the
United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico, South Africa and China, Volkswagen
and its 12 brands rank among the most respected employers.

56

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Excellent Employer

in decision-making. In particular, we would like to highlight three
aspects

Alongside the external impression that graduates and young
professionals have of us, there is of course also an internal perspective – how our own employees view their workplace and working
environment. Personnel management at the Volkswagen Group is
therefore endeavoring to create conditions at all levels that will deliver a positive experience of Volkswagen as an employer. Along with
providing interesting jobs and attractive working conditions, our
guiding principles are designed to underline the status of employees as confident, entrepreneurial, creative people who are involved

§§ the codification of Group-wide employment rights in
guidelines and charters
§§ the involvement of employees through their elected
representatives
§§ the entitlement of our workforce to a share in profits.

EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS IN THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
§§ The Charter on Temporary Work. In November 2012, Volkswagen’s
executive management, the GEWC and GGWC signed a charter setting out the principles governing temporary work. These
included, for example, a guide ratio of temporary employees to
core workforce, stipulations on equal pay, equal treatment and
qualification programs, plus a time limit of 36 months before the
offer of a permanent position must be considered.

The foundations underpinning the provision of attractive, long-term
working conditions are a raft of charters and declarations agreed
with our Group European Works Council (GEWC) and Global Group
Works Council (GGWC) which govern the collective rights of our
employees in the workplace and the organization of their work.
These include:
§§ The Declaration on Social Rights and Industrial Relations at
Volkswagen (the Volkswagen Social Charter). Volkswagen set out
the fundamental social rights of employees in this declaration in
2002. These are based on the relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization. A revised version of the Social Charter
was signed in 2012.

§§ The Charter on Vocational Education and Training. As well as a
high standard of education, the Group is seeking to offer attractive
training opportunities at its various locations. Approved in 2015,
this charter recognizes vocational training as a core aspect of labor
relations. To comply with the charter, the social partners must
jointly define certain aspects such as the trainee selection process,
the duration and quality of vocational training, plus the conditions
for subsequently hiring trainees following an apprenticeship.

§§ The Charter on Labor Relations. This charter came into force in
autumn 2009 and combines greater rights to consultation with
shared responsibilities. It defines the rights to information, consultation and co-determination enjoyed by employee representatives
from brands, companies and sites represented on the GEWC and
the GGWC.

These policy foundations underpin the rights of elected employee
representatives at the Group level in the European and Global Works
Councils. They provide a binding framework for developing existing
local labor relations in a responsible manner using cooperative conflict resolution approaches.

EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION THROUGH ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
are constantly being adapted in line with the ongoing development
of the Group. In addition to the Group European Works Council and
the Group Global Works Council (set up in 1990 and 1999 respectively), in recent years a number of committees have also been established to reflect the increasing complexity of the Group (such as committees specifically concerned with commercial vehicles, financial
services and sales companies, mechanical engineering and so forth).
In 2016, the decision was taken to set up a separate committee for
the Volkswagen brand itself, due to start work in 2017. The committees of the European Works Council and the Global Works Council
meet at least once a year. In addition, all members of these two
works councils attend a joint session every year. As well as exchanging information internally and discussing the current situation at
the various sites, the respective HR managers and Group executive
management also share information about future product and workforce plans and consult each other on social welfare and personnel
standards.

Volkswagen has an internationally recognized culture of co-determination. At many sites, employees are represented in two ways: firstly,
by a trade union, and secondly, by representatives elected to a works
council. Many companies in the Group also have a supervisory board
on which the workforce is represented. The International Charter on
Labor Relations allows employee representatives around the world
to conclude agreements with local management on specific rights to
information, consultation and co-determination.
This widespread form of participation has proved highly successful
over many decades. When major changes are expected, such as in
the case of the pact negotiated in 2016 regarding the future of the
Volkswagen brand for example, employee representatives are involved in the planning process from an early stage. This ensures that
such processes of change are tackled jointly and have the support
of all employees. These co-determination structures are by no means
static, however. Our international employee representative bodies

57

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Excellent Employer

REMUNERATION, REWARDING PERFORMANCE,
PROFIT-SHARING AND RETIREMENT PROVISION
§§ an entitlement to profit-sharing, which is laid down in the
collective agreement.

As stated in our Social Charter, all remuneration and benefits paid
for a normal working week should at the very least correspond to
the respective statutory minimums – and this applies not only to our
employees, but to all our suppliers too. Because they are collectively
agreed with trade unions, however, nearly everywhere our rates
of pay are considerably higher than the prevailing minimum levels.
When setting pay, we make no gender distinctions: people are
recruited, hired and promoted solely on the basis of their qualifications and skills. Remuneration is based strictly on the job performed.

This three-tier system has proved to be an expedient way of
enabling employees to share in the company’s success.
Employees of Group companies in Germany and around the world
also enjoy further company benefits.
Along with an attractive remuneration package for our active employees, we are also concerned to make provision for those embarking on the next stage of their life. By offering occupational pension
schemes, Volkswagen AG, its brands and subsidiaries make an important contribution to ensuring that retirees still have an income in later
life. In addition to employer contributions, employees can convert part
of their pre-tax salary into pension contributions. They can also opt
to defer a further proportion of their compensation in the form of a
direct retirement insurance contract.

A total of nine new collective agreements were concluded at inter­
national car production plants in 2016. In some cases, these involved
industrial action: strikes were held at Lamborghini, Ducati and Italdesign during national pay negotiations within the Italian metalworking
and electrical engineering industry. There was also a stoppage at
Scania in São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil during collective bargaining
talks. Group sites in Brazil and Belgium were affected by politically
motivated strikes. A regional strike against planned cost-cutting measures and government reforms triggered a one-day strike at Volkswagen do Brasil’s Anchieta plant. Workers at Audi’s factory in Brussels
also took part in protests as part of national strike action against
actual and planned government cutbacks and reforms. As a company,
we respect the right of our employees to take part in lawful strikes.

Volkswagen AG’s Time Asset Bond is a scheme for reducing the length
of an employee’s working life. Since 1998, employees have had the
option to contribute to the bond out of their gross pay and working
time credits. They can then use the time assets accumulated to take
paid time off in the run-up to retirement. Such benefits also help
boost our attractiveness as an employer in the long term.

Together with remuneration packages that include a profit-related
element so employees can share in the company’s success, the
systematic encouragement and rewarding of good performance are
key qualities of an excellent employer. Since 2010, Volkswagen AG
has consistently applied standard criteria for skills development and
performance assessment across its entire workforce, from apprentices to top managers, which are underpinned by concrete incentive
programs within the pay structure.

Depending on location, benefits may also include subsidized trans­port
and meals, low-cost accommodation, monthly childcare allowances
and discounts on selected leisure activities. Additional healthcare
or supplementary pension benefits round off the range of company
benefits offered.
The extensive social rights enjoyed by employees, strong workforce
representation, participation in decision-making processes, performance-related remuneration and good retirement provision form
the building blocks of our attractiveness as an employer, which
together constitute the bedrock of our human resources policy. These
aspects are further augmented by numerous initiatives, agreements
and programs which aim to develop our workforce and create ver­
satile first-rate teams.

Salaried employees at Volkswagen AG are paid according to
a three-tier system:
§§ basic pay in the form of a competitive monthly salary,
§§ a performance-related component which additionally rewards
individual performance and

58

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

Strategic Objective:
Skilled and Committed Employees
The second goal of our human resources strategy is to cultivate skilled
and committed employees. For us, commitment means first and
foremost actively participating and helping to add value, using one’s
initiative, but also taking change in one’s stride and personally initiating process improvements. It also means seeing the bigger picture and
taking an interest in the environment or events and developments in
society at large.

ON-THE-JOB COMMITMENT
uously improve processes and structures in the areas of productivity,
quality, ergonomics, leadership and teamwork. Using “train the
trainer” methods, the Group and brands are gradually bringing all
their plants up to speed. A trainer from the Group provides support
to participants during the initial stages of this pilot. By training
jointly, group and team leaders gain a greater understanding of each
other’s roles while everyone attains the same level of knowledge.

We like to see our employees tackling their work enthusiastically,
showing commitment and team spirit while contributing their
expertise. In return, we invest in our workforce, foster a good
working atmosphere and offer attractive opportunities for career
development. As well as listening to their opinions and constructive
criticism, this includes actively involving employees in improving
processes and assuring quality. One tool used for this purpose
throughout the Group is our Employee Opinion Survey . We use
this standardized Group-wide employee survey to obtain regular
feedback on employee satisfaction, and by extension on the extent
to which we have fulfilled our goal of being an attractive employer.
The survey also helps to systematically identify scope for improvement and pinpoint the areas where managers need to take action
within their organizational units. In 2016, we revised the Employee
Opinion Survey to include additional questions and new tools to
help line managers discuss the results with employees. The 2016
survey was conducted at 172 sites and companies in 45 countries.
Approximately 440,000 of over 540,000 employees in the participating Group companies responded; this is equivalent to a response
rate of 81%. In 2016, the score on the employee satisfaction index –
a key indicator generated by the opinion survey – was 78 out of 100.

This is not just limited to our plants in Germany. In 2016, for instance, a new tool was trialed by our CIP team in the Group production system at SEAT Componentes at El Prat in Spain. The CIP team
focuses on eliminating waste in processes. Everything takes place
on the shop floor, from organizing workstations and standardizing
workflows through to detecting non-conformances and resolving
problems. A wide range of the Group’s production system methodology modules are used as part of the CIP team’s feedback loop.
Our ideas management program is another important tool for
encouraging employee engagement. This program enables employees to bring their creativity, knowledge and initiative to bear and
take responsibility for improving both processes and products. Over
580,000 ideas were submitted in 2016, saving the company approximately €435 million at Volkswagen AG sites in Germany, Volkswagen
Sachsen GmbH and Volkswagen Osnabrück GmbH. Ideas management is an important leadership and motivational tool for plant
supervisors and managers. It also contributes to improving health
and safety in the Volkswagen workplace and helps us reach our
targets for reducing energy and water consumption, waste, solvents
and CO2 emissions.

We also rely on participation to make ongoing improvements to
our production systems. All the Group’s vehicle brands use standardized production systems which are continually developed with
input from employees. On the basis of four company agreements on
the “Volkswagen Way”, the Volkswagen brand workforce has been
involved in improving organizational efficiency since 2007. This has
been done using a variety of tools and methods designed to contin-

59

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

Ideas Management in the Volkswagen Group*

* 46 participating production plants, results according to respective local agreements.

COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY
more than €450,000. One beneficiary, for example, was the local
“Wolfsburger für Wolfsburg” non-profit association. Among other
things, the association funds nature experience days for children
and adolescents receiving treatment on the “Rainbow” psychosomatic
ward of the Wolfsburg pediatrics clinic.

Volkswagen can look back on a long tradition of engagement with
society, not least at international level. As well as supporting local
development, educational and social welfare projects at numerous sites, in many regions we act as an economic driver, helping to
strengthen education, culture and civil society, as well as promote
sustainable development in the form of infrastructure development.

In the “One Hour for the Future” campaign, Volkswagen and Audi
employees donate one hour’s pay to help street children, raising
substantial amounts for those in need. Since the summer of 2003,
this initiative has also included the collection of “spare cents”, where
Volkswagen AG employees in Germany and abroad donate the odd
cents on their monthly pay slips to this campaign as well. The funds
raised are used to support a total of 140 projects in seven countries
around the world.

Over the reporting year, we were involved in around 200 projects
around the globe designed to enhance economic and social structures.
We also provide emergency assistance on an ad-hoc basis, following
natural disasters for example. With our commitment to these causes
and the partnerships into which we enter with local political and civil
society stakeholders, we underscore the importance of the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in our daily operations.

Another workforce initiative led to the sale of sustainably produced
fair-trade products in the company’s cafes and restaurants, where the
sale of products bearing the Fairtrade seal has been promoted since
1999. Through this commitment, Volkswagen is helping producers
in developing countries establish socially sustainable businesses. In
2016, our annual consumption of fairly traded coffee rose by 30% to
103 t, and a fairly traded orange juice was added to the menu. Since
2014, three varieties of fairly traded rice have also been served in
Volkswagen eateries.

One example of corporate regional responsibility in practice is Wolfsburg AG, a public-private partnership between Volkswagen AG and
the city of Wolfsburg. As well as supporting start-ups and businesses
seeking to relocate to this city where the Group is headquartered, the
organization works with numerous partners to jointly create knowledge networks and provide funding for academic and community
facilities. The main focus is on education, energy, health, recreation
and, of course, mobility – traditionally one of Wolfsburg’s strongest
areas of expertise. In cooperation with the regional development
organization Allianz für die Region GmbH, Wolfsburg AG is devising
forward-looking solutions for improving job prospects and quality of
life across the whole of southeastern Lower Saxony.

The Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation, established in 2011, is playing an increasingly significant role in terms of our social engagement.
This charitable foundation aims to support youth outreach as well as
education and vocational training at all levels, with a particular emphasis on improving the living conditions of children and adolescents,
irrespective of their origin, background or religion. The Foundation
focuses its activities on the neighborhoods of Group sites worldwide,
implementing projects in partnership with children’s charity terre des
hommes. Since 2011, the Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation has
launched or supported more than 20 projects in Germany and elsewhere. For instance, the Foundation contributed to the construction
of the children’s refuge in Neindorf near Wolfsburg and the conversion of the “Alte Schule” annex into a versatile learning and activity
center. This center assists with the holistic care of children in need of
psychomotricity and experiential learning support. The Foundation’s
partner for this project is the Diaconate of Wolfsburg, which runs
the only children’s refuge within a 100-km radius. The Volkswagen
Employees’ Foundation also supports two projects run by the city of
Wolfsburg which aim to help refugees integrate into society. Both

Charitable donations constitute a further cornerstone of the Group’s
long-term engagement with society. We support a wide range of social initiatives and charitable projects around the world. The principles
governing donations and sponsorships are set out in our Group-wide
Code of Conduct, which stipulates we may give donations in cash and
in kind to support activities and projects primarily devoted to research
and education, culture, sports and social causes. Donations may only
be given to recognized non-profit organizations or ones specifically
endorsed to receive donations. Volkswagen does not donate to political parties, party-affiliated foundations or individual politicians. In
the reporting period, Volkswagen AG made donations amounting to
€33.2 million.
Added to this amount are the donations made by our employees,
which go to help support people in need in the vicinity of Volkswagen
AG’s various locations. In 2016, Wolfsburg employees alone donated

60

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

their database to identify a suitable project for them to support in
the future. Since 2007, around 2,600 volunteers have been matched
to suitable vacancies through this volunteer exchange.

projects target child refugees and young adults aged between 11 and
22. The “Alphabetisierungsgruppen” literacy project offers language
learning courses with parental involvement. The city of Wolfsburg
runs “Step by Step”, a three-month intensive integration program for
refugee children designed to make it easier for them to integrate into
mainstream education in Germany.

Volkswagen employees who are looking for a new challenge following retirement can register with our in-house “Senior Experts”
team. This offers them the opportunity to contribute their expertise
regionally or globally either within the company or by volunteering
with external organizations. In 2016, around 135 Senior Experts
took part in projects of their choosing, putting their specialist
knowledge to good use and contributing to a valuable intergenerational exchange of experience. During the reporting year, 28 de­
partments and more than 20 Volkswagen sites worldwide benefited
from the program.

Alongside these projects, which are directly supported by Volkswagen
or the Volkswagen Works Council, we also encourage our employees
to volunteer for local causes in their free time. To coordinate and
provide targeted support for volunteering activities, the “Volkswagen
pro Ehrenamt” initiative (Volkswagen Supports Volunteering) is an
integral part of personnel management. Employees who wish to
do voluntary work can contact the volunteering office, who then use

SYSTEMATIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
In the process, they also learn from more experienced colleagues
who act as experts and pass on their know-how in our occupational
family academies.

As well as commitment, we place an equally strong emphasis on
developing employees’ skills. Volkswagen has a highly sophisticated education and training system which enjoys close ties with
public educational establishments such as vocational schools and
universities all over the world. At Volkswagen, enabling employees
to acquire further qualifications is organized around occupational
families (“Berufsfamilien”). Employees who require similar skills to
perform their jobs and who possess the associated competencies are
said to belong to an occupational family. The general and technical
competencies required for each specific activity are defined in skills
profiles. Employees are offered a wide range of opportunities to gain
further qualifications, allowing them to continually update their
skills and deepen their knowledge throughout their working lives.

We are systematically expanding our network of academies for
occupational families. During the reporting period, the Governance
Academy was established, along with the Academy of Technical
Development, as stipulated in the pact for the future agreed with
the Works Council. Employees in the new model line organization
will be served by the existing Product Academy. From 2017 onward,
irrespective of brand or where an employee is based, skills development and training for all occupational families at Volkswagen will
delivered by one of the 15 academies.

DUAL MODEL OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
AND TRAINING
training and development program recruits the best 10% of apprentices from each year’s intake at Volkswagen AG and Volkswagen
Sachsen GmbH in Zwickau. 102 skilled workers joined the program
during the reporting year, taking the total to 851 young men and
women since the initiative was launched in 2008.

The dual model of vocational education and training, where theory
and practice are closely intertwined, creates the foundations for
acquiring the advanced skills, high quality standards and excellent
performance that the Volkswagen Group demands. Here, too, the
content of the training is very much geared to the skills required in
the various occupational families. Volkswagen has rolled out this
dual model at many of its locations outside Germany as well, and is
continuing to embed the model as the core framework for acquiring skilled worker qualifications. For instance, in 2016 a group of
apprentices at Volkswagen do Brasil were the first intake to graduate
as mechatronics engineers by passing an examination set by the
German Chamber of Commerce and Industry. When planning new
plants, dual vocational training is taken into account from the outset.
Accordingly, more than three-quarters of all trainees in the Group
learn their trade through the dual system.

On completion of an apprenticeship, the “Wanderjahre” (year abroad)
program offers young people the opportunity to spend 12 months
working for a Group company abroad. During the year under review,
15 Volkswagen Group sites in 13 countries took part in this development program, including – for the first time – Volkswagen Truck &
Bus as well as MAN Truck & Bus Germany. In 2016, 33 participants
from Germany plus nine from four other countries began their year
abroad within the Volkswagen Group.
Once a year, Volkswagen honors its highest-achieving trainees across
the Group with the “Best Apprentice Award”. In 2016, nine young
women and 36 young men from a total of 43 Group locations
received this award for their outstanding performance and technical
expertise.

As at the end of 2016, the Volkswagen Group had trained 19,490 young
people in some 60 recognized occupations on 50 dual-study courses.
We also support the career development of new entrants once they
have completed their apprenticeship. Particularly talented young
skilled workers are supported through “talent groups”. This two-year

61

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

CAREER DEVELOPMENT FOR GRADUATES
working internationally can take part in the 18-month StartUp Cross
program. This enables them to get to know Volkswagen as a whole
and start to network extensively. Through postings in a variety of
specialist areas during this period, participants get to know the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand and gain experience at its various sites
at home and abroad. Both programs also require trainees to spend
several weeks in production. Volkswagen took on 114 trainees under
the two programs in 2016, of whom around 26% were women.

Volkswagen recruits and fosters academic talent through two
programs: the Student Talent Bank and the Academic Talent Pool.
Student Talent Bank fosters high-achieving students in both work-­
related and interdisciplinary areas. The aim here is to encourage
former interns to join the company and give them the best possible
preparation for embarking on a career at Volkswagen. Shortly
before they complete their degree or doctorate, students showing
high potential are transferred into the Academic Talent Pool.
This program enables talented young students who have already
demonstrated their abilities through an internship, dissertation
or PhD at Volkswagen to raise their profile within the company,
boosting their chances of starting a career in their chosen specialist
field.

Trainee programs are also offered at international Group locations
such as at ŠKODA in Czechia and Scania in Sweden. In addition, since
2012 the Volkswagen Group’s StartUp Europe trainee program has
offered young engineers from southern Europe – where unemployment continues to be a major issue for young academics in particular – an opportunity to gain international work experience. This
Volkswagen program is designed to attract university graduates from
Italy, Spain and Portugal. Three months at a brand or subsidiary in
their home country are followed by 21 months at a Group company
in Germany.

Volkswagen also offers two structured entry and development programs for university graduates and young professionals. In addition
to working in their own field, trainees in the StartUp Direct program
attend additional training courses and obtain a good overview of the
company over a two-year period. University graduates interested in

EXTENSIVE TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES
FOR SPECIALISTS AND EXECUTIVES
across the Group in 2016. Over 590 training courses and programs
were newly developed for the Volkswagen brand alone.

At the Volkswagen Group Academy, skilled specialists can choose
from a broad range of advanced training courses – from further
training in occupational or cross-disciplinary areas of general interest
to the Company, to specific qualifications in the occupational fam­
ilies, through to comprehensive personal development programs.
Here, too, the focus is on the dual-study model which combines
theory with practical experience. Overall, around 106,000 qualification activities totaling 13.3 million hours of training were completed

We have standardized many of the development programs and
selection procedures for executives, managers and group leaders
across the Group. During the reporting year, the Volkswagen Group
Academy ran some 615 training programs and assessment centers
for executives, managers and group leaders in 15 countries.

ACADEMIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
tations and theses, and offers PhD students in the Group a platform
for exchanging ideas and gaining interdisciplinary qualifications. As
at the end of 2016, more than 400 PhD students were engaged in
researching topics of future interest to Volkswagen’s various Group
companies in Germany.

As part of the Volkswagen Group Academy, AutoUni employs top inhouse experts and collaborates with higher-education institutions
to furnish the company with leading-edge knowledge for the future.
Its programs and collaborative study models use a blended learning format which combines face-to-face classroom teaching with
online content, supplemented by lectures and conferences. Subjects
covered in 2016 included digital transformation, sustainability, e mobility, driverless cars, Industry 4.0, and the workplace of the future.
Around 9,200 people from 59 locations worldwide took part in over
160 AutoUni events.

In addition, AutoUni facilitates networking between the internal
contacts for universities within the Group and keeps track of links
to universities around the globe: during the year under review, over
1,700 national and international cooperation agreements with
universities, research institutes and universities of applied sciences
were in place.

AutoUni cooperates with internationally renowned universities, institutes and research centers on numerous research projects, disser-

62

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

IMPACT OF DIGITALIZATION ON TRAINING
New technologies can usefully complement traditional modes of
learning and skills transfer. As the core training provider for the
Group, the Volkswagen Group Academy is consequently incorporating these technologies in various projects. The digitalXperience
program is exploring ways of using digital technology to enhance
the content and learning formats of dual-track vocational training
as part of gearing up for the future. These measures are flanked
by systematic skills development among the teaching staff at the
Volkswagen Group Academy.

As part of the corporate learning and digital learning initiatives,
AutoUni and the Volkswagen Group Academy’s Group-wide training
networks are also making increased use of digital technology to
develop new training programs. At the same time, the Volkswagen
Group Academy is setting up an Education Lab designed to create
stronger ties with education start-ups and translate the findings of
educational research into new technologies. These will then be tested
in collaboration with the teaching staff and students at Volkswagen
to aid learning and skills transfer.

Audi AG is employing tablets as a complementary mobile learning
platform for vocational training in Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm as well
as in its Brussels and Györ training centers. Trainers are also being
instructed in how to work with tablet PCs. In 2016, ŠKODA launched
virtual classrooms and online language courses for German and
English.

All these measures are aimed at maintaining and enhancing the
high standard of skills and the outstanding expertise of Volkswagen
employees all over the world. Above all, we are committed to delivering learning and teaching within the framework of occupational
families, by following the dual vocational training model where
theory and practice are closely intertwined. Systematic knowledge
transfer by in-house experts at all levels and across all brands and
specialist fields is another key factor underpinning our success.

HEALTHCARE AND SOCIAL PROVISION
As well as complying with Group guidelines on protecting and
promoting health, the medical and healthcare services we provide
for our employees are in line with the relevant statutory requirements and internal regulations at each site. All sites have at least
emergency health provision, while most also offer medical services
under the oversight of a physician.

Our efforts to ensure that our employees have well-developed skills
and a high level of commitment address the first two facets of our
strategic objective to cultivate “skilled and committed employees”.
However, alongside a willingness to perform (through participation)
and empowerment to perform (through having the right qualifications), there is a third facet, namely capability. This requires our
workforce to be physically and mentally capable of coping with the
stresses and strains that any form of work involves.

In the context of health, sustainability means ensuring that, ideally,
every employee is still healthy when they retire. Protecting and
promoting employees’ health is a priority for the company, shared
by both management and employee representatives. Under the
auspices of our TOGETHER 2025 strategy process, we have launched
our own Group health initiative. Over the coming years, we will further develop and implement innovative approaches to prevention,
workplace health management and ergonomics throughout the
Group. The aims of the health initiative are clearly defined: to improve employees’ quality of life, reduce stress, avoid chronic illness
and consequently also boost performance and reduce absences.

Consequently, we do not simply regard the protection and promotion of our employees’ health as a self-evident social obligation
and reflection of our corporate culture, but also as an integral part
of our human resources strategy. Volkswagen’s holistic approach
to health management goes well beyond traditional preventive
healthcare and occupational safety; it also includes aspects such as
work organization, ergonomics, prevention, integration and rehabilitation, along with leadership styles.

IMPROVING OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
conducted to ensure compliance with these worldwide standards.
For this purpose, in 2010 the Group launched its own occupational
safety management system (KAMS). This system is used to analyze
the organizational structures and processes for occupational safety
at all participating Group companies. The findings are held in a
central database with Group-wide access. To improve the sharing of
information, in recent years the exchange of reports on serious and
fatal accidents within the Group has been harmonized. As a result,

Like preventive healthcare and emergency health provision, the
continuous improvement of occupational safety is vitally important to us. As long ago as 2004, the Volkswagen Group drew up an
occupational safety policy which is binding on all Group companies around the globe. The same standards of work organization,
occupational safety and healthcare apply to all our employees
worldwide, taking into account local medical infrastructures and the
relevant statutory requirements in each case. Group-wide audits are

63

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

all sites can take specific action to prevent such accidents in the
future. Since 2012, Volkswagen in Germany has also been running
mandatory occupational safety training modules for all prospective

managers. Similarly, the group leader qualification modules have
also been standardized and now form a mandatory part of basic
group leader training.

WORKPLACE ERGONOMICS
a result, employees can be deployed in jobs that optimally reflect
their capabilities.

The Group continues to attach a high priority to improving workplace ergonomics. Its focus in 2016 was on firmly anchoring
ergonomics in the 2025 production strategy, in particular by lever­
aging ergonomics and synergies across all our brands. A number
of projects were implemented in the reporting period:

§§ Since June 2016, humans and robots have been working hand in
hand at Volkswagen’s Wolfsburg plant, and the first human-robot
collaboration (HRC) initiative has now been deployed on the Golf
production line. In the drive preassembly section, where individual
powertrain components are assembled to produce an engine ready
for installation, employees are assisted by a robot. Collaborative
robots have already been deployed in other Group plants as well.

§§ Together with Technical Development, Quality Assurance, Planning,
Industrial Engineering and Production units, in 2016 a standard
process for reducing the effort required to record and analyze force
measurements and for designing workstations was developed and
agreed.

At the same time, for several years Volkswagen has been making
improvements throughout the product development process with
the aim of ensuring that the quality of jobs and the physical demands placed on employees by production processes are taken into
consideration from the earliest planning and design stages of new
vehicle models.

§§ The drafting and approval of the Ergonomics White Paper provided the basis for planning workstations in production and logistics,
with the aim of reducing the physical strain associated with the
high-speed, value-adding production methods geared to matching
customer demand.

This involves leveraging both research and practical experience to
combine state-of-the-art ergonomic workstations with innovative
work processes. “Ergo assistants” on production lines give employees
advice and guidance directly at their workstations on how they can
optimize workflows from an ergonomic standpoint.

§§ In the future, cross-brand guidelines for ergonomic assessments in
logistics will enable transparent, reproducible workload analyses
for logistical activities.
§§ At Volkswagen-branded locations – currently as part of a pilot
project – a workplace management system is being used to match
workplace demands to individual employees’ physical capacity. As

Robots perform tasks that would not be ergonomic for humans

64

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Skilled and Committed Employees

PREVENTIVE HEALTHCARE
This checkup has now been rolled out to almost all international
sites. Other preventive healthcare programs have been brought into
line with Group-wide standards. In many cases, country-specific
supplementary examinations, such as HIV and tuberculosis tests,
have been added.

Ergonomics in factories and offices is one side of the occupational
health equation; individual preventive measures are the other. The
Volkswagen Checkup – a free, comprehensive health screening
program for all employees – is now established at all German sites
and helps employees stay fit and healthy and maintain their performance. Employees appreciate the high-quality diagnostics and
follow-up preventive healthcare and exercise programs.

Checkups within the Volkswagen Group1

REHABILITATION MEASURES
are “JobReha” which offers one to three weeks of outpatient, day-­
patient or inpatient treatment, mainly for musculoskeletal problems, and the “RehaFit” program, which focuses on orthopedic or
psychological rehabilitation. Other examples include physiotherapy
and general or targeted stamina-building exercises at workplace
fitness centers. Support and counseling services for employees with
mental health or psychosomatic problems are also being steadily
expanded.

At many sites, we offer a tailored rehabilitation program to reinte­
grate employees following serious or long-term illness, providing
specific job-related support at an early stage. The aim is to restore
an employee’s ability to work within three to at most six months.
At Volkswagen AG, the program may also include specially tailored
services, depending on the particular needs in each case. Examples

SOCIAL PROVISION IN THE WORKPLACE
If an employee falls ill, our involvement is not solely limited to providing assistance of a medical nature, however. Volkswagen AG also
supplements benefits paid by social insurance providers, for example
sick pay, and provides support to relatives of employees who die.

The company also has a collective accident insurance scheme which
insures employees for accidents resulting in death or disability. In
exceptional circumstances of financial need, Volkswagen AG can also
provide employees with short-term loans.

65

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Work Organization Fit for the Future

Strategic Objective:
Work Organization Fit for the Future
A job’s attractiveness depends first and foremost on the workplace
itself. Accordingly, we endeavor to provide an innovative working environment in our plants and offices which allows individuals to fulfill
their potential. This includes introducing new approaches such as
Scrum and design thinking in knowledge work, as well as innovative
practices on the shop floor, for instance by systematically designing
technology around the workforce. In addition, we offer working time
models tailored to individual workers’ requirements and specific
programs for employees with special needs, as in these cases in
particular, customized forms of work organization can significantly
boost performance and job satisfaction levels.
For instance, Volkswagen AG’s Work2Work program has been creating new career opportunities for performance-impaired employees
since 2001. An employee’s current potential is matched to workplace requirements so that despite performance impairments, the
individual is nevertheless still able to make a significant contribution
to value creation. Almost 2,000 employees have benefited from this
program in recent years, and 541 people are currently employed in
Work2Work jobs in Wolfsburg across some 100 different activities.
In 2016, the proportion of severely disabled people in Volkswagen
AG’s total workforce came to 7.74%, considerably more than the
statutory quota of 5%. The fact that approximately 55% of these
severely disabled employees work in production demonstrates that
we have plenty of experience in providing special workstations for

people with performance impairments. We are also committed to
employees with disabilities in other countries too. For instance,
over 200 people with disabilities work in six sheltered workshops
at ­ŠKODA production plants in Czechia. We also support jobs for
severely disabled people by awarding contracts to workshops for
people with disabilities. Orders worth over €19.5 million were placed
in 2016.

EXPANDING BARRIER-FREE ACCESS
plants, we have drawn up an “accessibility map” which is updated
on an ongoing basis. We are also constantly increasing the number
of barrier-free workstations and training facilities, as well as our
barrier-free processes. In 2015, we rolled out an accessible online
application process for our vocational training programs; this was
further expanded in 2016.

Creating the workplaces of the future also means making them
barrier-free. This includes ensuring that all employees, regardless
of any impairment, can access and use all buildings, information
and communication facilities without assistance. To make it easier
for all our employees to find barrier-free parking spaces, cafés,
canteens, self-service shops, elevators and first-aid stations in our

INNOVATIVE WORKING TIME MODELS
Volkswagen AG is extremely flexible in its undertaking to re-employ
workers who take extended leave: for the past 20 years or so, employees have been able to take up to eight years’ leave of absence
without having to give a reason. Regardless of whether this leave is
used as a sabbatical, for parental leave or career development purposes, employees have a guaranteed right to re-employment on the
same terms and conditions as before. Both Audi and Porsche also
have arrangements for sabbaticals in place. At Audi, this is governed
by the company agreement on sabbaticals drawn up in 2009, while
at Porsche, it is governed by the 2014 company agreement on volun-

Flexible working time plays a significant role in innovative work
organization models. Volkswagen is continuously working to further
enhance the ability of its employees to combine work and family
life. In September 2016, Volkswagen AG introduced a far-reaching
company agreement governing mobile working, i.e. work away from
the usual workplace. Since October 2016, workers at Audi AG have
been entitled to flexible working arrangements in terms of location
and time, provided this is feasible for the particular job in question.
These agreements are satisfying the wishes of many employees for
more flexibility in choosing where and when they work.

66

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Exemplary Leadership and Corporate Culture

Another option is to work part-time for up to 24 months in order
to meet caring obligations. At Porsche, employees have been able
to apply for time off to care for family members since 2014. If care
is urgently required within the family, they can take up to three
months’ leave.

tary personal leave. This sabbatical model comprises a work phase
and an unpaid leave phase. The minimum duration of the unpaid
leave period is two months, and the maximum is twelve months.
We also offer a wide range of options for taking a leave of absence
to care for close family members. Employees are entitled to take up
to 10 working days of leave at short notice, to make arrangements
for appropriate care for instance. They may also take up to six
months part-time or full-time leave to care for a family member.

We believe these measures greatly contribute to the present and
future attractiveness of work at Volkswagen, consequently also
ensuring the company remains competitive.

Strategic Objective: Exemplary
Leadership and Corporate Culture
viewed the criteria for appointments to management positions. One
important new policy introduced in 2016 was the Code of Collaboration, which anchors our interactions within the Group in a clearly
defined set of values. As the code defines the principles for trustbased collaboration within the Group, it also constitutes a key pillar
of our strategy. It describes how employees should cooperate within
the brand network and uses terms such as “open and honest”, “un­
complicated”, “without prejudice”, “on an equal footing” and “for
one another”.
Beneath the umbrella of the overarching Group strategy, the Group
brands are establishing their own brand strategies and defining
their own corporate values based on the Code of Collaboration. For
instance, the new corporate values of the Volkswagen brand are
“together”, “courageous”, “customer-focused”, “efficient”, “open
and honest” and “attentive”. These were announced in November
2016 following intensive, international consultations. Thousands
of Volkswagen employees contributed to the formulation of these
values in a wide variety of ways. 2017 will see campaigns to raise
awareness of these values, as well as embed them in HR processes
and corporate structures.

In the wake of the diesel crisis, as part of the Group’s TOGETHER
2025 strategy, the Volkswagen Group began a process of radical
transformation from the ground up. This includes ideas and initiatives for revitalizing our corporate culture. In 2016, for instance,
we formulated new Group-wide management principles and re-

EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AS LEVERS OF CHANGE
at all our locations around the world. Our position is crystal clear:
Volkswagen stands for respect, tolerance and cultural openness. We
guarantee equal opportunities and equal treatment irrespective of
ethnicity, race, gender, disability, ideology, faith, nationality, sexual
orientation, social background or political conviction, provided the
latter is based on democratic principles and tolerance toward those
who hold different views. The Volkswagen Group Code of Conduct,
which was jointly agreed with our social partners in the Social
Charter in 2002, underpins these aspirations throughout the Group.
Under the code, every employee and member of an executive board
is responsible for ensuring that colleagues work together in partnership and is obliged to report any breaches immediately.

As part of the drive to revitalize our corporate culture, our efforts
in 2016 were focused above all on implementing diversity management. This was not simply a response triggered by the fallout
from the diesel crisis, but represents a radical modernization of our
corporate culture. Different cultural circumstances in global markets
and an increasingly dynamic economic situation demand from us an
ever more broad-based array of experiences, world views, problem
solutions and ideas for products. The diversity of our workforce
offers us potential for innovation which we are seeking to leverage
more effectively in the future.
As part of our commitment to the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals, we champion diversity and equal opportunities
67

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Exemplary Leadership and Corporate Culture

of it when they join the company. The subject of discrimination is
also covered in management training courses. A separate brochure
describing the benefits of colleagues working together in a collaborative way aims to raise awareness of and prevent discrimination. It
includes information on how employees themselves can take action
if they perceive discrimination, what advice is available, and the
processes when making a complaint.

If any employee feels they are being discriminated against, in
addition to their statutory right to lodge a complaint, they may also
contact trained staff for advice and support. At the initiative of the
Works Council, employees’ obligations and their rights to non-discrimination were laid down in 1996 in the “Cooperative Conduct at
the Workplace” company agreement applicable to all Volkswagen
AG employees at all its sites. The agreement also covers bullying and
other forms of discrimination. Every new employee receives a copy

VOLKSWAGEN SHOWS RACISM
THE RED CARD

VOLKSWAGEN IN URUMQI –
INTEGRATION AND INCLUSION IN PRACTICE

The Volkswagen Group is supporting “International Weeks
against Racism”, a United Nations initiative. Volkswagen
organized a large number of related events between
March 13 and March 26, 2017, sending out a clear signal
against discrimination and xenophobia. Across the Group,
hundreds of employees of Group brands, subsidiaries and
global facilities took part in a worldwide photo campaign,
posting up selfies in support of the cause. CEO Matthias
Müller led by example, calling for a clear stance opposing
racism: “If you stay silent for too long, you shouldn’t be
surprised if things that seemed set in stone just yesterday
start to fall apart,” he said, as he explained the Group’s
commitment. At the same time, he underscored the
importance of intercultural, international tolerance for the
Volkswagen Group: “Our diversity is part of Volkswagen’s
DNA. True collaboration in intercultural, multiethnic teams
around the world – whether in offices or on the factory
floor – is based on respect and tolerance,” said Müller. He
stressed that Volkswagen has as little patience for racism
as for any other form of discrimination at work. “We have
a clear code of conduct and impose heavy penalties for
violations – up to and including dismissal!”

Xinjiang, the largest province (in terms of area) in the far
west of China, is regularly troubled by unrest among the
Uyghurs, a Muslim minority group. Since 2013, Volkswagen and the Group’s Chinese joint-venture partner have
been running a production facility in the province, in the
city of Urumqi. Volkswagen is countering the unstable
political situation in the region by actively assuming social
responsibility. A quarter of the workforce is currently composed of members of ethnic minorities, of whom half are
men and women from the original Uyghur population; so
proportionally, the composition of the workforce reflects
the ethnic profile of the greater Urumqi area. In addition,
Volkswagen has set up a dedicated staff canteen at the
plant that serves dishes prepared exclusively according to
Islamic dietary requirements.
Volkswagen’s pioneering work in this area is bolstered by a
wide range of CSR projects supporting all parts of the population of Urumqi and Xinjiang Province. The full scope of
these CSR activities includes environmental protection,
education and research, healthcare, culture, sport and the
advancement of women.

68

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Exemplary Leadership and Corporate Culture

ADVANCING WOMEN AND COMBINING
WORK AND FAMILY
for a career in management. Over the reporting period, 60 women
from Volkswagen AG, MAN, Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH, Volkswagen
Osnabrück, Volkswagen Financial Services AG and Autovision GmbH
took part in this program. There is a key difference between the
objectives of the two programs: while “Kompass” prepares women
for potential leadership roles at Volkswagen, the mentoring program
is aimed at women in the talent pipeline who have already been
identified as potential high flyers.

As part of our diversity agenda, we continue to attach great importance to advancing the careers of women in the workforce. As
a voluntary undertaking, the Group first proposed differentiated
targets for the proportion of female employees in the workforce
back in 2011. The following principle applies: we recruit the best
graduates from each year in the required disciplines, taking as our
starting point the proportion of female graduates on each course.
When all the courses relevant to Volkswagen are averaged out,
these differentiated quotas produce a recruitment target for female
graduates of 30%.

Volkswagen aims to attract female students at an early stage. Our
Germany-wide “Woman DrivING Award” and “Woman Experience
Day” both target female engineering and IT students and graduates,
aiming to interest them in technical careers with us.

Bringing more qualified women into the company will enable us to
steadily increase the percentage of women in senior positions over
the coming years. Volkswagen AG has set the following targets for
increasing the proportion of women in management:

With its “Sie und Audi” (Audi and You) program, Audi AG has been
supporting the career development of talented female high-achievers in all fields and at all levels for a number of years. The program
focuses on different target groups and include, for example, a
mentoring program for female talent as well as various seminars
and networking opportunities. In addition, Volkswagen is aiming to
increase the proportion of female skilled workers and group leaders
in Germany to 10%. In the 2016 fiscal year, the percentage of female
skilled workers in the Volkswagen Group in Germany (excluding
Scania, MAN and Porsche) was 7.6%, and 5.1% for group leaders.

§§ by the end of 2021, 13.0% of employees at the first level
of management should be female
§§ and by the same deadline, women should make up 16.9%
of employees at the second level.
For senior positions at the brands and companies in Germany where
equal treatment is prescribed by law, the Volkswagen Group is aim­
ing for 14.3% of managers at all levels to be female by 2021. In order
to support the career development of female talent in the company,
in the course of 2017, all companies with a headcount of over 1,000
will define targets for appointing women to management positions.
On this basis, at the beginning of 2018 we will then specify a new
broader target for the Volkswagen Group worldwide.

In order to increase the proportion of female trainees in industrial
and technical trades from 23.3% in 2016 to 30% in 2021, Volkswagen
is specifically seeking to attract female talent, for example by arranging special work experience and orientation days for young women.
The aim of these events is to give young women a taste of training
in these technical occupations and help them make career choices.
For many years, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche,
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, MAN and Volkswagen Financial
Services brands have participated in the Germany-wide “Girls’ Day”
or “Day of the Future” event. During the reporting year, the “Girls’
Day” format offered over 2,000 female school students a practical
insight into the industrial/technical careers offered in the automotive sector. During its “Technical Day”, ŠKODA gave 250 female
school students the opportunity to try out occupations in science
and technology by taking part in practical exercises.

In 2016, the proportion of women in management in the Volkswagen
Group in Germany (excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche) was 11.0%,
up from 10.3% the year before.
We are taking a variety of measures to encourage this trend. For
instance, 2016 saw the third cohort embark on the cross-brand management mentoring program, with 43 women from the Volkswagen
Group in Germany participating. In addition, Volkswagen offers the
“Kompass” program specifically to encourage female talent to aim

69

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: Exemplary Leadership and Corporate Culture

Programs for the Advancement of Women at Volkswagen

70

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Strategic Objective: First-Rate HR Organization

In addition to well-established existing facilities, such as those at
Volkswagen Financial Services AG or run by the Volkswagen Group
of America in Chattanooga, in recent years we have set up a number
of daycare centers near our operating locations. We also intend to
expand childcare provision at other sites along the lines of the concepts used at the Volkswagen plants in Hanover and Emden, which
were set up in collaboration with the respective local authorities.
All German sites of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche,
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and MAN brands offer childcare
during school holidays. And the range of childcare provision outside
Germany is also expanding, with children’s holiday camps at, for
example, Volkswagen plants in Shanghai, Navarra, Chattanooga and
Kaluga.

As well as attracting and fostering female talent, Volkswagen is continually striving to improve employees’ ability to combine work and
family life. To us, a family-oriented human resources policy is one of
the key qualities of an attractive employer.
The Group offers many different arrangements to enable individuals
to juggle the demands of work and home. These include flexible
part-time working and shift patterns, or teleworking and mobile
working at Volkswagen and Audi, as well as working for Porsche
from a home office. All brands also run programs to ensure a smooth
return to work after a period of parental leave. “Careers and kids” is
a new initiative at Volkswagen which supports young mothers and
fathers during their parental leave and helps them find the best way
of picking up their careers again following their return to work.

With these wide-ranging measures, we are confident that we are
making a real contribution, not only to more diversity, but also
to a culture of openness and inclusion across all our brands and com­
panies.

Another step on the way to becoming a family-friendly enterprise
is our ongoing expansion of tailored childcare provision. Both in
Germany and other countries, the Volkswagen Group has found
childcare facilities in the vicinity of the company to be beneficial.

Strategic Objective:
First-Rate HR Organization
All the objectives and various activities described require a solid
foundation. As passionate HR people, we are convinced that only
strong personnel management focused on the interests of both
the company and its employees can provide the basis for good work
policies in an environmentally and socially responsible enterprise.
Highly competent and qualified HR staff are crucial for implement­
ing human resources policies that motivate people to perform their
best. Accordingly, our fifth strategic objective is to continuously
improve our HR organization. This goal that we have set ourselves
is ambitious – HR will shape and support all upcoming change
and transformation processes in the company, without ever losing
sight of the objective of creating highly productive, people-friendly
working environments. To attain this vision, we are currently improving the organization of personnel management. Our future efforts
will center firstly, on the digital transformation of work processes,
and secondly, on refocusing personnel management.

adapt to changing circumstances. The goal is thus to make HR fit for
the digital age, release energies for cultural change and transformation, while at the same time contributing to the Group’s competitiveness and sustained economic success. We intend to reinforce our
strengths while preserving the tried and tested – but also to tackle
new challenges and shape the working environment of the future.
So: “Welcome, transformation”!

The “We empower to perform” human resources strategy will
formulate our previous personnel management objectives in more
detail. Not only will we ensure that our top teams have the requisite skills; in collaboration with the specialist units, we will work on
laying the foundations for enabling the teams to develop their full
potential – among other things by equipping them to continually

71

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Helping Refugees: Meeting, Educating, Integrating

Helping Refugees:
Meeting, Educating, Integrating
§§ Meeting: support for several thousand refugees by means of
donations, volunteering and get-to-know events.

Since the summer of 2015, the Volkswagen Group has been vigorous
in its efforts to support the wave of refugees arriving in Germany.
Together with employees and their representatives, the Group and
brands have been donating time, expertise and resources. Volkswagen considers that the most urgent priorities for refugees at present
are to learn German and acquire entry-level qualifications, as these
are the keys for accessing further education and training and integration in the labor market. In 2016, approximately 2,650 refugees
were given access to language and foundation training courses. The
Volkswagen Group’s commitment to aiding refugees comprises three
strands, in which the following took place during 2016:

§§ Educating: grants for 100 refugees, language and integration
courses for 1,400+ refugees over several months, classes and
targeted support for integration and skills for work, support for
minors at school.
§§ Integrating: work placements and internships for 340 refugees,
skill assessment measures and career guidance for over 870 refugees.

MEETING – FROM INITIAL AID TO HELP
WITH EVERYDAY LIFE
with everyday life. For instance, MAN initiated a long-term trainee
sponsorship program for unaccompanied refugee minors. As part of
this program, the trainees organize opportunities to meet and get to
know refugees, while refugees get an insight into work at MAN. These
initiatives are complemented by a variety of projects run by individ­
ual brands which are aimed at encouraging employees and refugees
to get to know one another and swap experiences. One example of
this is the “Kitchen Stories” intercultural cooking evenings offered by
Volkswagen.

Since the summer of 2015, many Volkswagen employees have given
their time and know-how to help set up accommodation for and provide practical assistance to refugees. The company supports this largescale voluntary involvement by offering the services of its experts,
making donations in kind and providing vehicles for aid organizations.
Evolving out of initial efforts to provide immediate aid, the brands and
their employees have been involved in developing a variety of short
and long-term social support initiatives. These range from organizing language courses and participation in sports through to helping

EDUCATING – FROM LANGUAGE COURSES
TO HIGHER EDUCATION
two classes to obtain school-leaving certificates. Participants, who
are over the compulsory schooling age, are helped to acquire a general
secondary school certificate (“Hauptschulabschluss”) through a com­
bination of general lessons, additional German lessons and socio-­
educational support.

At various stages of their educational journey, the Volkswagen
Group is helping refugees learn the language, obtain qualifications
and understand German culture. This begins with the very youngest: the Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation supports children and
adolescents during three years at school through donations of some
€2.5 million to fund language learning, integration and the acquisition of qualifications.

The Volkswagen Group also helps refugees obtain university degrees.
In cooperation with the charity start-up “Kiron Open Higher Education”, university places in IT and engineering are offered. Two years of
online study combined with a classroom phase at a German university
lead to a Bachelor’s degree.

Across the Group, the Volkswagen and Audi brands offer – directly
or in cooperation with educational providers – language courses at
different levels over a number of months. In addition, Audi is enabling

72

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
People Helping Refugees: Meeting, Educating, Integrating

INTEGRATING – FROM PLACEMENT
TO STARTING A CAREER
combination of German lessons and hands-on experience in a work
environment – the first initiative of its kind in Lower Saxony.

The aim of initiatives in this area is to help prepare refugees step
by step for entering the German education system and labor
market. Through placements and internships at a number of different Volkswagen Group brands, refugees gain an initial insight into
working life in Germany.

With a combination of vocational subjects, career guidance and
practical experience, the “integration year” at Porsche prepares
refugees for apprenticeships or starting work. The first intake of the
Porsche integration year graduated in August 2016. Most participants were either able to start an apprenticeship or were taken on
by the company on a temporary contract basis. At Audi and MAN,
initiatives to provide refugees with entry-level qualifications have
also been successfully launched.

To get this project off the ground, in 2016 the Volkswagen brand
ran a pilot refugee work experience program. The program was
accompanied by workplace training modules covering language, job
application coaching and intercultural awareness.
Volkswagen Financial Services runs training courses to help refugees obtain truck drivers’ licenses. In addition, they offer access to
vocational qualifications that recognize qualifications in financial
services obtained in refugees’ countries of origin.

In line with our philosophy of sustainability, the projects described
will continue throughout 2017 and the range of projects will be
further expanded. New initiatives to help refugees prepare for work
and obtain qualifications are set to commence in 2017.

In Hanover, as part of a SPRINT language and integration project,
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is offering young refugees a

Integrating – Work placements offer initial insights into working in Germany

Meeting – “Kitchen Stories” are intercultural cooking evenings for refugees
and Volkswagen employees

Educating – Language courses for various levels of ability (here at Audi AG)
73

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Our goal: to make each new generation of vehicles more eco-friendly than its predecessor

Environment
Our goal: to make each new
generation of vehicles more
eco-friendly than its predecessor
Climate change, resource availability and urbanization are among the major global challenges facing the Volkswagen
Group. These challenges are reflected in growing demands from all sides – from politicians enforcing ambitious environmental regulations around the world, from investors who expect us to anticipate and manage the resulting risks, and
from customers with their growing interest in low-emission, environmentally friendly vehicles. Our TOGETHER – Strategy
2025 aims to make a significant contribution to achieving a reality in which mobility has fewer negative environmental impacts, and to attaining the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our goal is to become a role
model for environmental protection. We believe the transformation of our core business is the right way to meet these
objectives. In coming years, we intend to launch a major electrification initiative and enter new areas of business.

Environmental management
The Volkswagen Group has a long tradition of commitment to en­
vironmental protection. Our environmental strategy sets binding,
measurable targets at every stage of the value chain, aimed at
further improving environmental protection within the Group.

In our quest to become a role model in all things related to the
­environment, we have drawn up several guidelines:
§§ In addition to addressing the global challenge of climate change
(reducing CO2 emissions), our approach covers all other environmental resources, especially in terms of conserving water, soil
and air quality as well as energy and raw materials. Our decades
of experience and the expertise we have built up as a result will
come to fruition both globally and locally.

THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP’S FUTURE PROGRAM,
TOGETHER – STRATEGY 2025, REVEALS HOW
VOLKSWAGEN PLANS TO EXCEL. :

§§ We employ a holistic approach by researching, developing and
democratizing environmentally friendly innovations, significantly
reducing environmental impacts in the process.

By taking responsibility for environmental issues, we intend
to become a role model in all things related to the environment. This sense of responsibility informs all our thoughts
and actions in equal measure in all the decisions we take. We
pay particular attention to the emissions and resource utilization of our product portfolio, our locations and our plants.
With this in mind, we have defined the following targets:

§§ We significantly reduce environmental impacts throughout the
entire product life cycle by setting ourselves ambitious goals and
acting as a driving force in both the production phase (supply
chain) and use phase of our products.
§§ We communicate our measures, achievements and projects as
transparently as possible.

§§ To continuously reduce our carbon footprint

§§ Our achievements are substantiated by top rankings in environmental awards.

§§ To continuously reduce our pollutant emissions
§§ To continuously reduce our resource consumption

74

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Environmental management

Our Group targets state that all newly developed vehicles should
improve on the environmental performance of predecessor models
in every respect over the vehicle’s entire life cycle. In production,
by 2018 we aim to reduce the five key environmental indicators –
energy and water consumption, waste for disposal, and CO2 and

VOC emissions – by 25% per manufactured vehicle compared with
the 2010 baseline. Based on the mean value of these five indicators,
by 2016 the Group had already succeeded in reducing the environmental impact per unit of production of our passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles by 25.3%.

ORGANIZATION – POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
§§ Group Environmental Policy (2010)

We can only reach our ambitious targets if environmental issues
are firmly entrenched in our organizational and decision-making
processes. Our long-established environmental management system
provides the basis for this.

§§ Group Environmental Principles Locations/Production (2007)
§§ Group Environmental Principles Product (2008)

All environmental protection activities in the Volkswagen Group are
centered around our global principles, which have been expanded and
improved over the years, and which are binding for all Group brands:

§§ Mission Statement on Biodiversity (2008)
All those responsible within the Group, within the brands and at our
locations are required to comply with these environmental principles. The environmental policies and targets of the VW Passenger
Cars/VW Commercial Vehicles, Audi, Bentley, Lamborghini, MAN,
Porsche, Scania, ŠKODA and SEAT brands are likewise derived from
these principles.

SEAT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMPLIES WITH ISO 14006
In 2016, SEAT became the first company in Spain’s automotive sector to be certified under the
ISO 14006 Ecodesign standard, a certificate which guarantees that the company complies with an
environmental management system in all its product design and development processes. Awarded
by the TÜV Rheinland organization, the certificate attests to SEAT’s environmental strategy and the
ecodesign criteria that now drive the design and development of its entire model line-up. Obtaining
ISO 14006 Ecodesign certification is an important milestone for the company, in that it helps the
management system to continuously identify, verify and improve the environmental aspects of its
design and development processes. The ISO 14006 Ecodesign certificate ensures that any possible
impact that a product could have on the environment is carefully considered from the time it is first
conceived, encouraging a preventive approach. It considers the environmental impact of a vehicle
at each stage in its life cycle, from the development process through to final disposal once it is no
longer in use.

As at the end of 2016, in addition to the Group’s environmental
protection activities, 97 out of our 120 production sites held a valid
ISO 14001 or EMAS certificate. At our Wolfsburg location, home of
the Technical Development department, it was decided to temporarily suspend EMAS registration for 2015. In November 2016, following
a review by environmental auditors, the plant was re-entered on
the EMAS register. In 2016, the environmental management system
of the Volkswagen brand’s Technical Development department was
successfully recertified to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. The
key new features of this ISO standard include the introduction of
the so-called “High-Level Structure” (HLS), greater consideration for
environmental factors, and an integrated approach to competitive
context based on opportunities and risks.

Many of the production facilities of the Volkswagen, Audi, ŠKODA,
SEAT, Bentley, Lamborghini, Porsche, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles
and MAN brands have had their energy management systems certified under the ISO 50001 standard.
Since 2009, the “Integration of Environmental Factors into the Volkswagen Brand’s Product Development” in the Technical Development
department of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand has also been
certified to ISO/TR 14062.

75

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Environmental management

Sites with Environmental Certification
previous year in brackets

GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION BODIES
§§ the Corporate CO2 Steering Committee

The Group Board of Management is the highest decision-making
authority on environmental matters. Since 2012, it has simultane­
ously functioned as the Group’s Sustainability Board. The CSR and
Sustainability Steering Committee reports directly to the Sustainability Board on a regular basis, and is made up of representatives
of Group units, brands and companies. The Group-wide management of environmental protection is the responsibility of the Corporate Environment and Energy Steering Committee, with input from
numerous specialist bodies such as:

§§ the Vehicle Recycling Steering Committee and
§§ the Corporate Energy Working Groupe
These committees assess and analyze environmental opportunities
and risks. To cover the entire value chain (life cycle approach), the
corresponding Group divisions are represented on the Corporate En­
vironment & Energy Steering Committee.

§§ the Corporate Life Cycle Engineering Working Group

The brands and companies are independently responsible for en­
vironmental organization at their own headquarters and locations,
but base their respective environmental policies on the targets,
guidelines and principles that apply across the Group.

§§ the Corporate Resource-efficient Production Working Group

ENGAGING THE WORKFORCE
level. Employee engagement is supported by an intranet portal
show­casing best-practice examples and facilitating direct contact
with all the relevant specialists. The portal also outlines fundamental
energy-saving guidelines and tips, including a number generated by
the central Ideas Management program.

Only a well-informed, qualified workforce can implement the specific
measures derived from our Environmental Strategy and achieve the
set targets. Since 1976, Environmental Officers at our European locations have regularly convened to share their knowledge and experience. Regular Group Environmental Conferences were introduced in
1998 as a forum for the Group’s Environmental Officers and experts
to discuss strategies, measures and projects, and draw up joint action
plans. In support of the production process, the Volkswagen brand has
introduced Environmental Ambassadors (SfU) – employees who have
been specially trained as environmental experts. Worldwide, more
than 1,000 ambassadors are now operating as front-line contacts and
multipliers for production employees. So-called Energy Experts (SfE)
are also given special advanced training in energy saving. The Wolfsburg facility alone has more than 70 SfEs helping their colleagues to
save energy. Cross-brand, inter-departmental steering committees
and working groups also operate at both management and expert

As a further element of organized workforce involvement in meeting
the Volkswagen Group’s environmental targets, a “Works Agreement
on Environmental Protection” has been in place at Volkswagen AG
factories (including the Technical Development department in
Wolfsburg) since 1995, and was most recently updated in 2013. It
motivates employees to incorporate environmental protection into
their everyday work, so that environmental management objectives
and measures become an integral part of production reality at all
our factories and across all our development activities.

76

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

CLIMATE CHANGE
A new all-electric e-Crafter concept vehicle was unveiled in 2016 at
the IAA Commercial Vehicles motor show. The production version of
the vehicle represents a zero-emission urban delivery vehicle with
unlimited freight capacity and a range of up to 160 km (100 miles).
The first vehicles will be delivered to customers in late 2017.

Volkswagen welcomes the ratification of the Paris Agreement on
climate change, which aims to limit global warming to less than 2°C
above pre-industrial levels. Referring to international climate agreements, our CEO Matthias Müller is calling for the automotive industry
to ensure that all fleet CO2 emissions “are steadily reduced to zero
by 2050.”

By 2025, the Group is planning to launch more than 30 new all-electric vehicle models. We will then be in a position to sell two to three
million all-electric vehicles each year, representing around a quarter of
our total unit sales.

Our most effective lever for reducing our global carbon footprint is to
optimize CO2 emissions from the vehicle fleet. This estimate is supported by the Scope 3 GHG Inventory we have been publishing since
2012, according to which 74% of total CO2 emissions are generated
during the use phase.

The Group made a commitment to reducing the CO2 emissions of its
European new-car fleet to 95 g/km by 2020 at an early stage. We also
undertake to uphold CO2 specifications in general, including those
affecting light commercial vehicles.

Our powertrain and fuel strategy is therefore crucial in pointing the
way ahead for CO2-neutral, sustainable mobility. Fundamentally, our
approach is based on the massive expansion of our expertise in electric mobility. Furthermore, Volkswagen is intensifying its commitment
to the development and use of fuels that produce less CO2.

At the moment the Volkswagen Group offers
§§ 36 models <= 95g CO2/km,

In 2016, we brought nine models with alternative drives to market.
They included the following battery electric vehicles (BEVs): the new
VW e-up!, the new VW e-Golf, the new VW Golf GTE and the new
Audi Q7 e-tron quattro and Audi A3 e-tron. They also included the
following vehicles powered by compressed natural gas (CNG): the
new VW Golf TGI and Audi A3 g-tron. This means that in Europe alone
(as from spring 2017), the Group now offers a total of 21 models
equipped with all-electric, plug-in hybrid or natural-gas powertrains.

§§ 100 models <= 100 g CO2/km,
§§ 450 models <= 120 g CO2/km and
§§ 596 models <= 130 g CO2/km in Germany
(respectively engine/gearbox variations, corresponding to DAT guideline (Q2/2017).

Products
will cars undergo a massive transformation as electric vehicles start
to penetrate the marketplace, mobility itself will become a separate
product, redefined by customers, new players and traditional auto­
makers. As the basis for new mobility services, the Group has created
two new business areas: Digitalization and New Mobility Services.

The automotive industry is on the verge of making the next quantum
leap in innovation. While fuel-efficient conventional vehicles with
low CO2 emissions will remain important for the foreseeable future,
it is digitalization, combined with electric mobility and autonomous
driving, that will transform our business – with implications that
many people are not yet aware of. Over the next few years, not only

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

NUMEROUS PATENTS FILED

Our product development process lays the foundations for maxi­
mizing the fuel economy and resource efficiency of our vehicles.

In the 2016 fiscal year, we filed 6,465 patent applications
worldwide (compared with 6,244 the previous year) for employee inventions, more than half of them in Germany. The
year-on-year increase is primarily attributable to the rising
number of applications relating to driver assistance systems,
conventional and alternative powertrains, and lightweight
construction, once again highlighting the company’s outstanding capacity for innovation.

During the 2016 fiscal year, the Volkswagen Group’s research and
development activities concentrated on expanding our product portfolio and improving the functionality, quality, safety and environmental compatibility of our products, while simultaneously reducing
the number of platforms we use. The Volkswagen Group invested
€11.5 billion in research and development in 2016, much of which
was spent on efficiency-enhancing technologies.

77

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

Audi Q7 e-tron 3,0l TDI quattro – fuel consumption in l/100 km: from 1.9 to 1.8
(combined); energy consumption in kWh/100 km: from 19.0 to 18.1 (combined);
CO2 emissions in g/km: from 50 to 48 (combined); CO2 efficiency class: A+

The Volkswagen Group’s new passenger car fleet in the EU (excluding
Lamborghini and Bentley) emitted an average of 120 g CO2/km
over the reporting period. For the purposes of European CO2 legislation, the Lamborghini and Bentley brands each have an independent
fleet, both of which likewise met their individual targets. In the

USA, the fleet emissions figure is 162 g CO2/km (Audi/VW calendar
year; not VW Group of America), in China 153 g CO2/km (VW Group
(Import) Co, Shanghai Volkswagen, FAW-Volkswagen) – equivalent
to 6.51 l/100 km – and in Brazil 131 g CO2/km.

POWERTRAIN AND FUEL STRATEGY

CO2 Emissions 1 2
,

The Volkswagen Group’s Powertrain and Fuel Strategy is based on
a three-pronged approach consisting of the optimization of conventional powertrains, more intensive use of low-carbon fuels and
greater focus on hybrid/all-electric powertrains. It paves the way for
carbon-neutral, sustainable mobility in line with the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We aim to boost powertrain efficiency with each new generation of vehicles – regardless
of whether they are driven by combustion engines, hybrid drives,
plug-in hybrids, all-electric powertrains or, perhaps in the near
future, fuel-cell systems. All our mobility concepts are tailored to
the requirements and customer needs of our respective markets. By
taking this approach, we will broaden our portfolio of drive systems,
aiming for increased coexistence of conventional powertrains and
electric mobility systems in the future. Our current modular matrix
platforms are designed so that the full range of drive systems can
be deployed and flexibly fitted on production lines in all our global
locations. In the future, Volkswagen will focus on massively expanding our range of electric drives. We will also be adding an electrified
version of our modular matrix (the Modular Electrification Toolkit or
MEB) that will form the backbone of upcoming electric vehicles. In
addition, ­Volkswagen is accelerating the introduction of liquid and
gaseous fuels from renewable or CO2-neutral sources. Even users of
existing vehicles can benefit from these approaches.

of the Volkswagen Group’s European (EU28) 1 new Passenger Car Fleet
in grams per kilometer
0

1

30

60

90

120

150

2016

1201,2

2015

1211,2

2014

126

2013

129

2012

135

This figure is the volume-weighted average of all specific CO2emissions from new passenger
cars registered for the first time in the respective calendar year, based on the calculation
logic defined in EU Regulations (EC) 443/2009 („NEDC test cycle“).
2
Subject to official publication by the European Commission.

78

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

Powertrain an Fuel Strategie
Conventional electricity

Fuel cell
Battery power

Carbon-neutral electricity

Plug-in hybrid
Carbon-neutral fuels
(liquid, gaseous)

Hybrid drive

CARBONNEUTRAL
sustainable
mobility

Combustion engine

Conventional fuels

We have significantly reduced the fuel consumption of our vehicles
with conventional drive systems through the use of efficient TFSI, TSI
and TDI engines, dual-clutch transmissions, lightweight construction
and improved aerodynamics. And we continue to work to enhance our
conventional powertrains’ potential for improvement and make our
engines as clean as possible by fitting our petrol engines with gasoline
particulate filters, our diesel engines with the latest and most efficient
SCR catalytic converters.
VW Passat GTE – fuel consumption in l/100 km: from 1.7 to 1.6 (combined); energy
consumption in kWh/100 km: from 12.8 to 12.2 (combined); CO2 emissions in
g/km: from 39 to 37 (combined); CO2 efficiency class: A+

GASOLINE PARTICULATE FILTERS (GPF)
Particulate filters for petrol engines, known as “gasoline
particulate filters (GPF)”, will come into much more widespread use across our whole portfolio. In a step-by-step
rollout starting in 2017, all the Group fleet’s direct-injection
TSI and TFSI engines will be fitted with gasoline particulate
filters. This will reduce emissions of fine soot particulates by
direct-injection petrol engines by up to 90%.
By 2022, up to seven million Volkswagen Group vehicles
could be fitted with the technology every year. The first
engines to be equipped with GPF in June 2017 will be the
1.4 TSI in the new Volkswagen Tiguan and the 2.0 TFSI in
the Audi A52. The system will then be implemented in other
models and engine generations.

Over the reporting period, Volkswagen continued to develop the
TSI engine family. The latest generation celebrated its debut in the
spring of 2017, in the form of the 1.5 TSI evo in the new Golf. This
will be followed by various new engines, including a BlueMotion
version capable of 96 kW (130 hp). The TSI evo is the perfect validation of the Group’s strategy of using modular high-tech toolkits
to make pioneering technologies available to customers in standard
production vehicles.

79

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

1.5 TSI EVO ENGINES
The latest generation of the new EA211 TSI Evo engine, presented at the international Vienna
Motor Symposium, starts with the 1.5 TSI, initially with outputs of 96 kW and 110 kW. Highlights
of the new power unit include the first-time appearance in a production car of an exhaust-gas
turbocharger with variable turbine geometry (VTG), the Miller combustion process with a high
compression ratio of 12.5:1, a common-rail injection system with pressures of up to 350 bar, an
innovative thermal management system, and ACT variable cylinder deactivation technology.
These high-technology elements result in efficiency improvements of up to 10% compared with
the previous-­generation 1.4 TSI engine (92 kW). The improvements in fuel con­sumption take
effect across broad swathes of the engine map, so have a direct impact on customers’ everyday
driving experience.

300 km (NEDC), has a significantly longer range than its predecessor.
All these vehicles are already capable of driving with zero local emissions on short and medium journeys. By combining drive concepts in
this way, Volkswagen sees an oppor­tunity to offer customers electric
vehicles that will meet almost all their mobility needs, build trust in
the new technologies, and thus help bring about the electric mobility
breakthrough.

Natural-gas engines play an important role in our powertrain portfolio.
The chemical composition of the fuel means that CO2 emission levels
are around 25% lower than those produced by petrol (gasoline) engines.
Our customers can experience this in the new Golf TGI (81 kW with
six-speed transmission: natural gas 3.6 kg/100 km and 98 g CO2/km;
81 kW with DSG: natural gas 3.5 kg/100 km and 95 g CO2/km).
Both the Audi A4 g-tron and the Audi A5 Sportback g-tron exhibited in Geneva in 2017 are sporty, versatile and optionally almost
carbon-neutral. The two g-tron models will be launched in the spring
of 2017, representing yet another Audi offering that contributes to
the future of sustainable mobility. Following the launch of the A3
Sportback g-tron, this will bring another two other models to market
that run on natural gas or Audi’s climate-friendly e-gas.

Most customers want to take their vehicles on longer trips as well.
Until all-electric vehicles offer the range required for longer journeys,
Volkswagen regards plug-in hybrid vehicles that combine highly
efficient combustion engines with zero-emission electric motors as an
excellent bridging technology. For some years, we have been offering
hybrid models in multiple vehicle classes. Porsche showed off the new
Panamera E-Hybrid at the Paris Motor SHow. And across the Group
as a whole, we will be launching 17 new plug-in hybrids over the next
two years. By 2025, we intend to bring 30 new all-electric vehicles to
market.

Natural gas is also an economical, clean alternative for powering
heavy commercial vehicles. In order to be able to use natural-gas
engines in long-distance trucks and buses, however, compressed
natural gas (CNG) must be replaced with liquefied natural gas (LNG),
because this is the only way to achieve the required energy density
and hence the desired range. The relevant infrastructure must be
improved before the widespread use of natural gas as a fuel becomes
feasible. For example, only a few countries have well-developed
networks of filling stations offering natural gas. With Scania’s intro­
duction of the opticruise automated gearshift system for gas trucks,
these vehicles are becoming more attractive. Now offering gas
trucks running on biogas, ethanol and ordinary diesel engines adap­
ted for biodiesel and HVO, Scania is strengthening its position as
the commercial vehicle manufacturer with the broadest range of
vehicles running on renewable fuels. MAN also manufactures Euro-6
trucks and buses with various drive systems that can be powered
by biodiesel or biomethane (sustainable natural gas).

The percentage of drivers who mainly travel short distances is
growing. They include commuters and city residents, but also delivery
vehicles in urban areas. The population shift towards urban areas
­continues unabated, and is by no means confined to the burgeoning
megacities of Asia and South America. On short, local journeys, all-­
electric vehicles like the e-up!, e-load up! and e-Golf are emission-free,
hence of particular interest to customers who only cover short or
me­dium distances in their everyday driving. Private battery recharging
options – such as charging stations installed on customers’ premises –
must be supplemented by a good public recharging infrastructure in
the medium to long term.
September saw the groundbreaking ceremony for Dresden’s largest
electric mobility recharging facility. The facility, which is directly adjacent to the Volkswagen “Gläserne Manufaktur” (Transparent Factory)
exhibition space, obtains the electricity it needs for its fast-charging
stations from photovoltaic panels on the Volkswagen building. This
ensures that the recharged vehicles are carbon-neutral.

We are expanding our conventional and natural gas-powered engine
range using components that electrically assist the powertrain, and
are determined to make electric mobility a new Volkswagen trademark. Our range already includes all-electric vehicles such as the e-up!,
the e-load up! and the new e-Golf, which, with a maximum range of

80

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

Eco-friendly drivetrain technologies in the Group1,3
Vehicles produced

The first compact Volkswagen based on the MEB will be the I. D.,
which celebrated its world premiere at the Paris Motor Show where
it kicked off the countdown to the future. A new electric car fleet will
soon follow. The I.D. has a range of between 400 and 600 km (250400 miles), and thanks to a newly developed “design DNA” for electric cars, will be immediately recognizable as a zero-emission vehicle.
The new compact electric car will be launched in 2020, in parallel
with the new Golf – at a price level equivalent to a comparably
powerful, well-equipped Golf. The production version of the I.D. will
make a significant contribution to ramping up the electric mobility
market. Initially, the powertrain in the I.D. will consist of an electric
motor with a peak output of 125 kW (170 hp) which, together
with power electronics and transmission, is built into the rear axle.
Other powertrain components include a high-voltage flat battery
built into the floor of the car, and auxiliary systems housed in the
front of the vehicle.

The Volkswagen Group’s modular toolkit strategy achieves significant
synergies by focusing on modules that can be used across multiple
model series and brands. The vehicle architecture is designed in such
a way that all types of drive system can be integrated flexibly and
economically. This is particularly true of models based on the same
platform; for example, they can use a standardized plug-in hybrid
system consisting of a highly efficient turbocharged petrol engine, an
electric motor, a compact six-speed dual-clutch transmission devel­
oped specifically for these applications, and a lithium-ion battery.
We have incorporated the production of electrified vehicles into the
manufacturing processes at our existing factories, including Wolfsburg, Emden, Bratislava, Ingolstadt and Leipzig.
The Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB) is designed as a new
toolkit for building vehicles based on an all-electric powertrain. This
design approach offers a wide range of advantages, especially in
terms of packaging, i.e. the arrangement of powertrain components,
auxiliary systems and interior features.

81

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

all-electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, we currently use lithium-ion
cells that are assembled into battery systems at our Braunschweig
factory. We are also researching other types of battery based on
solid electrolytes, which have a higher energy density and also meet
stricter safety standards. We are investigating ways of industrializing
these technologies. Meanwhile, the next generation of electric and
plug-in hybrid vehicles will still be fitted with improved lithium-ion
technology. Electric motors are manufactured at our plant in Kassel.

Later production versions may also include electric motors with
more or less power, but the design concept also allows for I. D.
­models with different sizes of battery.
The vehicle’s battery can be charged by cable or through an inductive
charging interface in the front of the vehicle. It will also be possible
to send the car away to automatically recharge itself by induction.
The fast-charging system means that it takes just 30 minutes to
recharge the battery to 80% capacity.

A battery roadmap detailing the development of energy density and
ranges was presented by Thomas Sedran at the Goldman Sachs
8th Annual Global Automotive Conference in London in December:

The heart of an electric vehicle is its battery, the energy content of
which is the deciding factor in determining the vehicle’s range. For

Roadmap battery cell chemistry and energy density
range*
Up to 700 km
1,000 Wh/l

Up to 500 km
800 Wh/l

* basis: eGolf with comparable battery volume

Up to 300 km
410 Wh/l
Up to 190 km
230 Wh/l
2014

Up to 420 km
700 Wh/l

Up to 380 km
650 Wh/l

Lithium ion technology
2017

2018

New battery technologies
2020

Starting in 2016, we have been producing electrified vehicles based
on our Modular Longitudinal Matrix (MLB) locally in China. Electrified
vehicles based on our Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB) will follow
at a later date. We are also planning to localize core components,
including the high-voltage battery system.

82

2025

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

Volkswagen Group China will be prepared to deliver around
1.5 million zero emission cars to Chinese customers by 2025
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Locally produced plug-in hybrids based
on current toolkits

+

+
–

+

Range: up to 1,000 km
Pure electric: up to 60 km

Locally produced pure electric vehicles based
on current toolkits
+
–

+

Pure electric: up to 300 km

Locally produced pure electric vehicles
based on scalable electric toolkit (MEB)
for different vehicle classes
+
–

+

Pure electric: up to 600 km
Speed charging of 80% in just 15 min

Thanks to our conventional and alternative technologies, as well as
our modular toolkit strategy (including the new MEB), which allows
innovations to be incorporated rapidly into different vehicles, we
are ideally positioned to meet the challenges of the future. We have
expanded our expertise in the field of electric traction by bringing
additional specialists and experts on board.

Hydrogen will still not be widely available as a fuel in the medium
term. Both hydrogen filling stations and production plants for producing hydrogen as a renewable will need to be developed. Volkswagen
has been working on fuel-cell technologies for over 15 years and has
gained extensive experience operating test fleets. The decision as to
whether to proceed to series production will depend on market requirements and infrastructure. Volkswagen is actively involved in the
H2 Mobility project, the aim of which is the systematic development
of an H2 infrastructure in Germany.

CO2 LIMITS FOR TRUCKS AND BUSESE
efficient, hence carbon-efficient, commercial vehicles, resulting in
lower CO2 emissions. Europe’s commercial-vehicle industry supports
the aim of reducing CO2 emissions and improving road safety.

Having already adopted CO2 legislation for passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles, in May 2014 the European Commission set out
its strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from trucks and buses, with
the aim of reducing CO2 emissions from the entire EU commercial-­
vehicle fleet. Until now, CO2 emissions from commercial vehicles have
not been recorded, since the size, weight, application, mileage and
usage conditions of trucks and buses are extremely varied. Manufacturers are currently collaborating with the EU Commission to draw
up a generally accessible quantification and binding declaration of
vehicle CO2 emissions using the VECTO CO2 simulation model (Vehicle
Energy Consumption Calculation Tool). The aim is to further enhance
transparency and increase market pressure. Before the EU agrees CO2
limits for trucks and buses, however, an impact assessment must first
be carried out in order to identify the most cost-effective solution.

However, new vehicles are not solely responsible for CO2 emission
trends. Important roles are also played by tires with reduced rolling
resistance, by the aerodynamic trim of trailers, and by driving be­
havior, as well as alternative fuels, transport infrastructure and traffic
conditions. In view of this, there is a joint obligation on automakers,
but also on policy-makers, automotive suppliers, petroleum companies
and logistics companies, to take concerted action to minimize CO2
emissions in the European transport sector. Possible solutions could
include long trucks; according to scientific studies by the Federal
Highway Research Institute (BASt), they could cut CO2 emissions by
up to 25% and are currently participating in field trials on German
roads. This would make tackling CO2 emissions the joint responsibility
of manufacturers, haulage companies and policy-­makers. The state
would be responsible for developing appropriate infrastructure, the
haulage companies for a more intelligent manag­ment of logistics
processes. As manufacturers, our responsibility would include investing in the development of more fuel-efficient vehicles and alternative powertrains.

Given the huge diversity of vehicle models and multi-stage pro­
duction processes that characterize heavy commercial vehicles, it
would not be appropriate to use the one-size-fits-all approach to
maximum admissible CO2 limits applied to cars and vans. Along with
our competitors, we advocate a transparent quantification of CO2
emissions that looks at the vehicle as a whole, i.e. including trailers
and bodywork, and not just at the engine or tractor unit. This trans­
parency should intensify the competition to build the most fuel-­
83

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

NEDC TEST CYCLE COMES IN FOR CRITICISM
A further important European regulation pertains to Real Driving
Emissions (RDE) for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
The packages of legislation are currently being elaborated; uniform
limits for nitrogen oxide and particulate emissions will then apply
across the EU from September 2017. These limits must be complied with in real-world road traffic, making the RDE test procedure
fundamentally different from the Euro 6 standard still in force, which
stipulates that the limits are compulsory on the test bed. The RDE
regulation is intended primarily to improve air quality in urban areas
and areas close to traffic. It will lead to stricter requirements for
exhaust gas aftertreatment in passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles.

The New European Driving Cycle (NEDC), the procedure used in
the EU to measure passenger-car fuel consumption, has come in
for repeated criticism from environmental organizations. Critics
claim that the CO2 emissions measured in the NEDC’s 20-minute
laboratory-based test cycle are much lower than the emission levels
generated in today’s actual, on-the-road driving conditions. Like all
other vehicle manufacturers, however, we must comply with this
legally mandated test cycle.
The European Union is planning to introduce the new World Light
Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP) in September 2017, which is intended
to produce more realistic consumption figures. Volkswagen welcomes the introduction of this new test procedure. Like the NEDC,
the WLTP aims to provide an objective benchmark for comparing
technical products.

LIFE CYCLE ENGINEERING
shops in which we jointly discuss and develop innovative approaches
to the environmental optimization of components and processes.

A comprehensive environmental assessment entails more than just an
analysis of fuel consumption; it must consider all the environmental
impacts of a vehicle over its full life cycle, from the manufacturing process – including resource extraction, production of materials, supplier
processes and our own in-house production at all locations – through
the use phase – including driving emissions, fuel preparation and
supply – through to the ultimate recycling of the vehicle at the end of
its life cycle.

In 2016, we used the CDP SCP to send out a questionnaire to 119 suppliers. We received comprehensive responses from 83% of them – 13%
more than the average response rate in the SCP. This year, the CDP
evaluated the “Ability” of the 3,300 participating companies to make
contact with their suppliers. On a scale from A to D, Volkswagen
achieved an A– ranking, versus an average rating of C–. The ranking
was based on an analysis of the answers to the questionnaire.

Improving each vehicle’s environmental performance over its full
life cycle is one of our Technical Development department’s most
firmly anchored environmental objectives. In order to meet this goal,
we prepare detailed life cycle assessments (LCA) of new vehicles,
powertrains, components and materials, so as to identify those areas
where improvements will have the biggest effect. We then develop
innovations targeting precisely these hotspots. This process is known
as Life Cycle Engineering. An eponymous working group is tasked
with ensuring the uniform Group-wide implementation of Life Cycle
Engineering. One of the outcomes of the working group’s activities
was the creation of the in-house software package LEAD (Life Cycle
Environmental Assessment Database), a server-based system for the
Group-wide sharing of harmonized data that guarantees the use of
standardized routines for calculating environmental footprints.

We report on Life Cycle Engineering successes to our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders by issuing what we call Environmental
Commendations. Based on an environmental impact assessment
complying with ISO standards 14040 and 14044, Environmental Commendations describe the environmental improvements in our latest
models compared with their predecessors. The Volkswagen Passenger
Cars and Commercial Vehicles brands both publish Environmental
Commendations. So does the Audi brand, under the heading Environmental Footprint.
Alongside LCAs, we also use other life-cycle approaches. In 2015, we
worked closely with the Technical University of Berlin (Technische Universität Berlin) to further develop our methods for calculating what is
known as the “water footprint”. Based on a vehicle’s LCA, we calculate
and analyze the amount of water consumed by the vehicle over its
entire life cycle. This enables us to take specific actions to reduce water
consumption

As part of optimizing the whole value chain in the most holistic way,
we aim to minimize the environmental impact of our vehicles by
working closely with our suppliers. This is why Volkswagen joined the
CDP Supply Chain Program (SCP) back in 2015. In addition, we seek to
stay in direct contact with our suppliers by organizing targeted work-

RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
Group Research is involved in two long-term projects examining
what the resource-efficient factory and resource-efficient vehicle
of the future will look like. New technologies such as electric and
fuel-cell vehicles play a key role here, especially in terms of their
resource requirements as well as new closed-loop recycling concepts.

Compared with purely environmental Life Cycle Engineering, our
analysis of the efficiency of our resource utilization takes the whole
process one step further. Measures to improve a product’s environmental performance over its life cycle are also assessed in commercial
terms, so we can identify which approaches achieve the greatest
environmental improvements in relation to the amount invested.
84

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

“PROACTIVE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY”: USE OF RECYCLED MATERIALS (ECO-FRIENDLY MATERIALS)
Minimizing our consumption of primary raw materials is a key
objective for Volkswagen. With this in mind, we explicitly insist
on the use of quality-assured recycled materials in almost all
vehicle components.

As well as dramatically improving a vehicle’s environmental
footprint, the use of recycled and renewable materials can also
make good economic sense. New Volkswagen branded vehicles
already have a high proportion of recycled and renewable
content, accounting for approximately one-third of the weight
of six models (Polo 5 and 6, Golf 6 and 7, Passat 8, Sharan) for
which precise figures have already been calculated.

Recycled materials – also referred to as secondary raw materials –
are materials manufactured from production residues or endof-life materials. They must meet the same high Volkswagen
quality standards as primary raw materials; this we ensure by
subjecting them to regular inspections. Only the highest quality
materials are used in order to guarantee the safety, reliability
and longevity of our products and satisfy our customers’ extremely high expectations.

Wherever possible, the Group’s brands use renewable raw
materials. For example, natural fibers like flax, cotton, wood,
cellulose and hemp are used in floor insulation, boot linings,
door and side panel trim and hood insulation. Similarly, kenaf
and flax fibers are used in armrests, while paper fibers are used
in cargo floors and roof reinforcement structures, and cotton
fibers in floor insulation.

To calculate the proportion of recycled materials in an entire
vehicle, we identify the materials in all its components and their
recycled material content, and add them up. In order to do this,
we depend on reliable information obtained directly from our
suppliers, as well as data from industry-specific associations,
since a single vehicle model may include around 5,000 components containing more than 10,000 material items.

In December 2016, Volkswagen signed a pilot agreement for
returning scrap aluminium directly to suppliers for subsequent
reuse in vehicles. The implementation of the Aluminium Closed
Loop Project in 2017 will be the very first time a closed loop
for aluminium has been organized with non-Group suppliers.

Input materials ans primary products
as Input
illustrated
by the
of the
materials
andexample
primary products
as
illustrated
by
the
example
of
the
VW Golf
VW Golf

Operating fluids and
auxiliary materials 2.3 %
Electronics 0.1 %
Composites and
other materials 3.3 %
Process polymers 1.1 %

Polymer materials 19.5 %

Nonferrous metals 2.6 %
Light alloys 8.2 %
Steel and iron materials 62.9 %

85

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

LIGHTWEIGHT CONSTRUCTION
designs. One example from the reporting period is the start of series
production of the new Panamera. For the first time, the Panamera’s
roof and side panels are made out of aluminium, and more than 30%
of the bodywork is also now made out of aluminium. But the proportion of high-strength steel alloys has also been increased, among
other things by integrating a highly complex tube of super-highstrength steel as the bulkhead support.

Lightweight body shell production remains a strategic development
priority. Volkswagen uses hot-formed, high-strength steels in pro­duc­
tion models. We are also pursuing a composite materials approach
for specific vehicles and platforms, using a range of different materials in one body shell. Lightweight materials such as aluminium are
also used in the development of new platforms.
The proportion of hot-formed metals in the latest Passat has been
increased by more than 75% compared with its predecessor. New
additions include crossmembers at the front and rear of the car and in
the transmission tunnel. While this means more energy is consumed
in the production process, the reduced fuel consumption resulting
from component weight savings has a dramatic impact on CO2 emissions and energy consumption over the vehicle’s life cycle as a whole.

On September 22, 2016, the Open Hybrid LabFactory (OHLF) was
opened in the presence of Federal Research Minister Professor Wanka
and other dignitaries. We are researching economical lightweight
construction technologies for series production as part of the OHLF
public-private partnership, a joint venture with the Lower Saxony
Research Center for Vehicle Technology (NFF) at the Technical University of Braunschweig, the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft and various other
industry partners.

Porsche continues to pursue a policy of “smart lightweight construction” by implementing a sophisticated mix of materials in body

Similarly, lightweight construction plays a key role in the successful new Audi A4, which entered production in 2015. Depending
on the model variant, an intelligent choice of materials and more
extensive use of lightweight construction techniques make the
new Audi A4 a full 65 kg lighter than its predecessor. The car
produces 6 t fewer greenhouse gas emissions (equivalent to
CO2) over its full life cycle than its predecessor, thanks to the use
of eco-friendly production methods, reduced weight, and a wide
range of efficiency enhancements such as outstanding aerodynamics (the 1.4 TFSI ultra has a drag coefficient of just 0.23).
This translates into a 16% improvement. In this way, we have
succeeded in reducing emissions even at the production stage,
despite our increased use of lightweight construction materials.
While the earlier model generated around 7.16 t of greenhouse
gases in the production phase, the new Audi A4’s production
process has reduced this by around 4% to 6.85 t.

Audi is committed to the use of lightweight construction to
improve the dynamics of its models while at the same time
reducing fuel consumption. The Audi Q7 body is largely made of
aluminium. Thanks to the Audi Space Frame construction, the
vehicle body only weighs a little more than 200 kg – 71 kg less
than its predecessor. The weight of the vehicle as a whole has
been reduced by as much as 325 kg.
Lightweight construction and a high level of rigidity are also
defining characteristics of the body shell of the Audi R8 Coupé.
Along with various aluminium components, the supercar’s
high-strength, almost torsion-free backbone consists of a rear
panel, center tunnel and three-part B-pillars that are all made
of carbon fiber-reinforced plastic (CFRP).

86

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS
§§ VW is the brand that has received the most awards in the “Ten
best 2016” rankings organized by Car & Driver magazine. After assessing 231 models available on the Brazilian market, a specialist
jury chose the move up! TSI as the “most sustainable model” and
the speed up! TSI as the “best hatchback”, with particular emphasis on the new 1.0 TSI Total Flex engine. The new 1.0 TSI Total
Flex engine is Volkswagen do Brasil’s most advanced engine and
the first in Brazil to feature direct injection, a turbo compressor
and Flex technology. The engine has already received a number of
awards in the Brazilian marketplace.

Volkswagen Group and Group brand models received numerous
awards in 2016 for their environmentally friendly features. Here are
some examples:
§§ In the ADAC EcoTest, the models tested in 2016 – including the
ŠKODA Octavia Combi 1.4 TSI G-TEC, ŠKODA Superb Combi 1.6 TDI
GreenLine and VW Passat Variant 1.6 TDI SCR BlueMotion – were
all awarded the top 5-star rating. The overall results of the ADAC
EcoTest are based on a range of metrics, including tests of emissions of e.g. carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and
particulates in realistic driving cycles. Driving cycles are conducted
with daytime running lights (or low-beam headlights) switched
on, the air-conditioning system turned on, and a 200 kg payload.
In late 2016, the ADAC EcoTest methodology was revised. Vehicles
that achieve good results in the EcoTest must now also be tested
on the road using a PEMS device (Portable Emission Measurement
System). In 2016, the VW up! 1.0 TSI BMT beats was subjected to
and successfully passed such a PEMS re-test.

§§ Volkswagen Passenger Cars vehicles emerged from a test organized
by Brazil’s Quatro Rodas magazine with top marks for energy
efficiency. Of all the cars with petrol engines, the speed up! was
the most fuel-efficient, followed by the take up! and the Fox
BlueMotion. The new Gol Comfortline with its 1.0 MPI engine and
the Audi A1 Sport 1.4 TFSI also made it onto the list of most economical vehicles.
§§ The Green Car of the Year Award is presented by U. S. specialist
magazine Green Car Journal. In 2016, two models from the
­Volkswagen Group were nominated, including the Audi A3 E-TRON
in the “Green Car of the Year” and “Connected Green Car of the
Year” categories, and the Porsche Cayenne S E-Hybrid in the “Luxury
Green Car of the Year” category.

§§ AUTO TEST, the monthly consumer advice edition of AUTO BILD,
and ÖKOTREND, the independent environmental research institution, presented awards for the most environmentally friendly cars
in all classes in 2016. Two Volkswagen Passenger Cars models won
in their respective classes: the eco-up! 1.0 EcoFuel in the subcompact class and the Passat GTE in the upper medium (mid-size
­luxury) class. The Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid was voted number
one in the SUV class. Assessment criteria included the manufacturer’s commitment to environmental protection and social
responsibility, and the environmental impact of the vehicles
over their entire life cycle.

§§ Next Green Car Ltd. in the UK presents annual awards for the most
environmentally friendly vehicles in 10 categories, after evaluating
the vehicles’ environmental impact throughout their life cycles.
In 2016, the VW e-up! was chosen as the winner in the “City Car”
category thanks to its local emission output of 0 g and 93-mile
range, which is ideal for city traffic.

§§ In the China Eco-Car Assessment Programme (C-ECAP), the VW Golf
TSI was the first vehicle ever to be awarded the platinum medal,
the best possible ranking. Vehicles were evaluated in six categories,
including energy efficiency and recycling quotient.

§§ The American Automobile Association publishes the AAA Green
Car Guide, an annual assessment of environmentally friendly
vehicles available on the U.S. market. Among the criteria applied
are pollutant emissions and fuel consumption. In the 2016 ranking, the VW e-Golf was awarded the title of “Best in Class” in the
compact car class.

§§ In the 2017 VCS environmental rankings, three Group models – the
VW up!, ŠKODA Citigo and SEAT Mii – took first places in the subcompact (mini) class.

§§ In the competition organized by industry magazines Verkehrs­
rundschau and Trucker, the Volkswagen Caddy came out on top in
the van category, receiving the “Green Van 2016” award. The Caddy
delivered the best overall result based on fuel consumption,
payload and load capacity. The EfficientLine 2 fuel-efficiency package for the MAN TGX was awarded the “Green Truck Innovation”
accolade for its demonstrable reduction of emissions of atmospheric pollutants, greenhouse gases and noise pollution. Scania
was presented with the “Green Truck Future Innovation 2016”
environmental award for its hybrid module for delivery vehicles in
the Promising Innovations category. The 235 kW (320 hp) hybrid
truck achieves fuel savings of up to 18% compared with trucks that
run solely on diesel. It can operate exclusively in all-electric mode,
or as a hybrid running on pure biodiesel.

§§ In the compact (small family) class, the Audi A3 Sportback TFSI
g-tron beat the VW Golf TGI; both vehicles are equipped with
natural-­gas drive systems.
§§ The Caddy TGI beat out other 5-seater vans to take first place.
§§ The editorial team of Engadget, one of the leading U. S. online
technology magazines, bestowed this year’s “Best of CES” award
on the BUDD-e in the Best Innovation category. Special mention
was made of the vehicle’s range and fast-charging mode. Online
consumer guide SlashGear, which generally rates smartphones,
cars, computers and digital lifestyles, also named the BUDD-e as
overall winner.

87

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Products

e-Golf (100 kW/136 PS) Electrical consumption in kWh/100 km: combined 12.7, CO2 emissions
c­ ombined in g/km: 0, efficiency class: A+.

ŠKODA Octavia GreenLine saloon (1.6 TDI) – fuel consumption in l/100 km:
urban 3.9 / extra-urban 3.2 / combined 3.5; CO2 emissions in g/km: 90
(combined); CO2 efficiency class: A+

up! TSI BMT - Fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 5.5 / extra urban 3.8 /
­combined 4.4; CO2 emissions combined in g/km: 101; efficiency class: B

88

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

Production and Logistics
§§ ultra-strategy – Audi

By 2018, the Volkswagen Group is aiming to reduce levels of the five
key environmental indicators per vehicle manufactured – energy
and water consumption, waste for disposal, and CO2 and VOC emissions – by 25% compared with the 2010 baseline. This target applies
to all the Group’s production locations for passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles, and builds on the general production process
requirements defined in the Group Environmental Principles. We
have already made considerable progress towards reducing all five
key indicators.

§§ Green Factory – ŠKODA
§§ ECOMOTIVE Factory – SEAT
§§ Environmental Factory – Bentley
§§ Resource-efficient Production – Porsche
§§ Blue Rating – Scania

In terms of environmental impact reduction per unit (UEP), we had
already reached our goal by the end of 2016, having cut production-related environmental impacts by 25.3%. The status at the end
of 2016 compared with the 2010 baseline breaks down as follows
(2015 figures in brackets):

§§ Climate Strategy – MAN
We encourage close integration and communication between the
brands worldwide in order to create synergies, for example with
our Environment Task Force. We record and catalog environmental
measures in an IT system and make these available for Group-wide
sharing of best practices.

§§ specific energy consumption: –17.0% (–16.4%)
§§ specific CO2 emissions: –19.5% (–19.5%)

In the reporting period, more than 1,600 implemented measures
relating to energy and the environment were documented in this
system, all serving to improve passenger car and light commercial
vehicle production processes. As well as being worthwhile from an
environmental viewpoint, these activities also make financial sense,
resulting in annual savings of around €49 million. The measures are
helping us reduce all five key environmental indicators, although
additional negative effects meant that the indicators for energy consumption and CO2 emissions did not change very significantly.

§§ specific VOC emissions: –41.3% (–30.5%)
§§ specific water consumption: –14.2% (–8.8%)
§§ specific waste for disposal: –34.6% (–32.1%)
The reduction in environmental impacts across the Group is the
result of specific environmental programs by the individual brands,
including:

Although 2016 was – yet again – the world’s warmest year since
climate records began, a colder winter resulted in increased heating
demand across Group locations.

§§ Think Blue. Factory. – Volkswagen Passenger Cars and
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles

ENVIRONMENT TASK FORCE
At Volkswagen-branded component manufacturing facilities, the
team works hand in hand with the energy management teams in
Component Planning, who also help identify potential savings.

We set up the Environment Task Force in 2014, with the aim of
identifying and implementing savings initiatives at Group locations.
This team of analysts from the Group environmental research unit
acts as a networking intermediary between departments involved in
planning, maintenance and operations, helping to close any gaps by
providing additional capacity and local expertise.

Up to and including 2016, the Environment Task Force was involved
in 25 projects around the world. Over this period, they implemented
savings measures worth €2 million and identified potential savings
at Group locations estimated at an additional €9 million.

The broad-based knowledge of the Environment Task Force, com­
bined with the many excellent ideas and solutions from colleagues in our various locations, plus the sharing of initiatives via
massnahmen@web, all help to promote a lively, Group-wide dialog.

89

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CO2 EMISSIONS
Since 2011, VW Kraftwerk GmbH has been investing in the ongoing
development of renewables and the construction of highly efficient
combined heat and power (CHP) plants driven by natural gas. In the
period to 2016, the company invested around €26 million in renewables such as wind farms and photovoltaic power plants. As part
of our fuel conversion strategy, VW Kraftwerk GmbH also invested
some €15 million in a cogeneration plant in Braunschweig and some
€65 million in a gas and steam turbine (combined cycle) plant in
­Kassel. Furthermore, alongside the company’s own electricity generation activities, we are currently implementing a proportional energy
program for the Volkswagen Group’s production sites in Germany
using carbon-neutral Volkswagen Naturstrom®. Over the next few
years, VW Kraftwerk GmbH is planning to invest in a new combined
cycle plant in Wolfsburg (by 2022) and in the further development
of renewables.

In 2016, energy consumption per vehicle fell from 2,106 kWh in
2015 to 2,090 kWh in 2016. Absolute volumes increased due to
the larger number of vehicles produced. This meant that we reduced
energy consumption by –17.0% (against the 2010 baseline).
CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) per vehicle rose from 882 kg in 2015
to 883 kg in 2016. Absolute volumes also increased due to the larger
number of vehicles produced. This represents a –19.5% reduction in
CO2 emissions compared with the 2010 baseline.
Our strategy for meeting our targets includes improving energy
efficiency, replacing coal with gas for our in-house energy production,
and purchasing electricity from renewable sources. We now meet
around one-third of our global electricity requirements from re­
newables.

§§ Lamborghini: New combined cooling, heat and power (CCHP) and
district heating plants, coupled with a 17,000 sqm photovoltaic
system on the roof of the central production shop at the Sant’Agata
site in Italy, were the main factors contributing to the brand’s
certification as a carbon-neutral manufacturer. Annual CO2 emissions at the Lamborghini site have been cut by around 820 t.
By the end of 2017, the CCHP is expected to reduce annual CO2
emissions to around 5,600 t, and the company is also planning
to convert the plant to run on biogas. Compensatory measures
will be taken to offset the remaining CO2 emissions. Lamborghini is the first company in the world to be certified by DNV GL
(Det Norske Veritas Germanischer Lloyd) under their “Carbon
Neutrality” program. DNV GL is one of the world’s leading service-providers in the classification, verification and management
of environmental risks.

Examples of Best Practice
We set a particularly positive example in Brazil, switching to 100%
renewable energy despite the country’s ongoing economic difficulties. This measure is reducing CO2 emissions by approximately
21,000 t per year.
In 2016, the first industrial combined heat and power plant in
the greater Shanghai metropolitan area went into operation at
­Volkswagen’s Chinese plant in Anting, in the form of a MAN CHP
plant. The power plant supplies the site with 26 MW of electricity
and 60 t/h of steam. This covers most of the energy and all of
the steam requirements of Car Plant 3, meaning that Anting is now
making annual savings of around 95,000 MWh of energy and
59,300 t of CO2.

90

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

A number of other examples illustrate our success in saving energy
and reducing CO2 emissions:
§§ VW: One important lever for reducing energy consumption is on-­
demand operation of all facilities. In 2016, we reinforced the energy
efficiency gains from the first pilot projects involving the load-­
dependent operation of paint dryers by rolling out the technology
at more locations. The change has cut energy requirements by
around 7,300 MWh a year, saving around €290,000 and reducing
annual CO2 emissions by approximately 1,900 t.
§§ In 2016, MAN successfully recovered thermal energy at the ship
engine test facility in Frederikshavn, Denmark, using the newly
installed heat recovery system. The recovered energy was supplied
to the municipal district heating system. The heat recovery system
is enabling us to avoid over 1,300 t in CO2 emissions.
§§ VW: We use energy value stream analysis to identify suitable
measures for reducing our energy KPI. This technique was trialed
at our Bratislava location and others in 2014, reducing annual
energy consumption by 12,916 MWh with annual savings of more
than €900,000. This methodology has since been rolled out to
other sites.

Volkswagen AG plant in Bratislava, Slovakia

BLUE BUILDING
In our quest for improved environmental performance, the
­Volkswagen Group does not limit its efforts to the internal workings of our production facilities. We also keep a close eye on ­
our buildings and real estate. With our Blue Building standard
and internal “Blue Building” award for energy-efficient, sustainable construction, we aim to reduce CO2 emissions from our
properties while ensuring that they are built and continue to
operate sustainably. We aim to significantly undercut statutory
energy consumption thresholds.

All lighting in the building and its external facilities is provided
by LEDs, while heat and power are supplied by a photovoltaic
system and a CHP unit (manufactured by Lichtblick). This cuts
CO2 emissions by up to 58 t per year.
A ventilation and cooling system delivers a steady supply of
fresh air, improving the overall quality of life within the building as well as the wellbeing of employees. At night or during
the daytime, special louvered windows can be used to cool
down the showroom by purely natural means.

Volkswagen Immobilien completed the first Blue Building – a
Volkswagen-brand car showroom in Hanover – at the end of
2015. In the course of this project, the old building was demolished, reprocessed on site and then reused as part of the foundations for the new building and its outdoor facilities. Recycled
waste glass was used as insulation underneath the building.

Our aim is to steadily refine and improve the Blue Building
standard. To do so, we systematically evaluate experience
acquired during the planning, construction and operation of
our buildings.

91

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

MATERIAL FLOW MANAGEMENT
external databases. Any missing data is obtained from in-process
measurements.

Volkswagen uses material flow management as a tool for analyzing
and evaluating material flows in production and the associated
environmental impacts.

Material flow analyses are useful to a variety of players. They can
be used to sensitize employees to the resource-efficient handling
of process materials, as a useful aid for planning new, more resource-efficient plants, or as a decision-making tool for implementing specific measures.

Material flows are resources and energy which flow within specified
system limits and can be allocated to production processes by
originator. Material flow analysis allows us to depict processes more
transparently, making it easier to recommend actions for reducing
environmental impacts and cutting production costs.

Two comprehensive material flow analyses focusing on material
efficiency were carried out in the paint shops of our Poznan and
Bratislava car factories. The measures identified in the course of
these analyses are currently being prepared for implementation in
production.

The informative value of a material flow analysis depends on the
data available. Incoming and outgoing material flows in processes must be measured both qualitatively and quantitatively, by
reference to both internal environmental information systems and

EMISSIONS TRADING
benchmarks, a set number of certificates are being allocated free of
charge over the 2013–2020 trading period. The automotive industry
was included in the new carbon leakage list that came into effect in
2015.

The procedure for allocating CO2 emissions certificates under the
European Union’s Emissions Trading System changed fundamentally
in 2013, at the start of the third trading period (2013–2020). Since
2013, emissions allowances for electricity providers have been auctioned. For the manufacturing industry and certain types of power
plant (e.g. CHP plants), a proportion of the certificates were initially
allocated free of charge. However, over the course of the trading
period, the number of such certificates has been steadily declining;
providers requiring additional certificates must purchase them at
auction.

A total of 30 Volkswagen Group locations are affected by the Euro­
pean Emissions Trading System. For 2016, 1,186,418 emissions
certificates were allocated to the Volkswagen Group free of charge
(39,769 fewer than in the previous year).
As well as the European Union, other countries in which the
Volkswagen Group has production sites are also considering the
introduction of emissions trading. Seven pilot projects have
been launched in China, for example, although they have not yet
affected the Volkswagen Group. The Chinese government plans
to expand these pilot projects to form a national emissions trading
system.

In certain industry (sub)sectors, there is a risk that production will
be transferred to countries outside Europe now that the amended
provisions governing emissions trading have come into force
(a phenomenon known as “carbon leakage”). Based on pan-EU

SOLVENTS
Examples of Best Practice

In 2016, VOC emissions per vehicle were reduced from 2.80 kg in
2015 to 2.42 kg. Compared with the 2010 baseline, emissions per
vehicle were reduced by 41.3%. This impressive achievement, whereby
targets were not only reached but exceeded in 2016, was driven by
numerous VOC-reducing measures in many of the paint shops at
Group locations, as well as the state-of-the-art painting and exhaust
air treatment systems installed in new plants.

§§ A new, low-impact top coat painting line came onstream in
­Ingolstadt. Featuring state-of-the-art technology such as air
recirculation, dry scrubbing and exhaust air purification, the new
facility has reduced the consumption of thermal energy and
water per car by 20%. Furthermore, air recirculation is helping to
reduce CO2 emissions per painted vehicle by 30%, while exhaust
air purification is reducing VOC emissions by 90%.

92

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

WATER
In 2016, water consumption per vehicle was reduced from 4.1 m3
in 2015 to 3.9 m3. Despite the larger number of vehicles produced,
freshwater consumption per vehicle has steadily fallen since 2010
thanks to a raft of recycling measures and the introduction of manufacturing techniques that use minimal water.
Alongside climate protection, conserving our planet’s freshwater
reserves is one of the pivotal requirements for preserving the basic
necessities of life. Water resources are already scarce in many regions of the world, and access to clean drinking water is an increasingly pressing problem for large sections of the global population.
This prompted us to adopt water as a focus topic for 2014. Within
our sphere of influence, we also support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in September 2015.
Drawing on the comprehensive data collated in our life cycle
assessments, we published a pioneering analysis of our water footprint in 2013, in which we identified those processes that consume
the most water over the life cycle of a representative selection of
­Volkswagen-branded models. In 2015, we worked with the Technical
University of Berlin to further refine the in-house methodology
used to calculate our water footprint.

§§ Social and environmental initiatives. Particularly through our biodiversity projects, we help protect water resources and promote
public environmental awareness.
§§ Transparency. We communicate our goals and activities to the
public. In 2013, Volkswagen became the world’s first automaker
to commit to the United Nations’ CEO Water Mandate. Also,
since 2011, we have been providing extensive disclosure of our
water management practices and progress, by completing the
very detailed CDP water management questionnaire. In 2015, we
withdrew our responses in the light of the diesel issue. After a
one-year suspension in 2015 as a consequence of the diesel issue,
we rejoined the program in 2016, achieving a Leadership rating
of A– for our Water Disclosure Project.

The water footprint analysis showed that the use phase plays only a
minor role. Much of the water consumed is due to the fuel production process. Another significant water consumer is the supply chain
for the extraction or creation of raw materials, over which we have
no direct influence. Consequently, we are focusing our attention
on areas where we can directly influence water consumption: our
production sites. We are also making efforts to continuously reduce
our water consumption by further improving our vehicles’ fuel
consumption and using more secondary materials, such as recycled
materials, in production. Our latest review indicates that 57% of our
entire freshwater consumption – approximately 23 million m3 – is
attributable to sites located in regions where groundwater resources
are at risk, especially our plants in Mexico, Spain, South Africa, India
and China. In these regions in particular, we have made minimizing water use an even higher priority. We adapt our water use to
the varying regional availability of water resources worldwide. At
the same time, we support a broad range of projects in which the
protection or development of water resources is a key or even the
primary objective. The same approach also characterizes the water
management strategy adopted by the Corporate Environment &
Energy Steering Committee, which defines four action areas:

2016 – “Year of Water” in China
Given the high production volume in China, the country’s share
of Group-wide water consumption is comparatively high. Consequently, 2016 was designated the “Year of Water” in China. Teams of
experts analyzed water management at all Volkswagen production
sites in China and implemented optimization measures in order to
save even more water per vehicle produced. Between 2010 and
2015, we had already achieved water savings of around 14.1% in
China. In 2016, we achieved further significant water savings, bringing total savings between 2010 and 2016 up to 22.4%. Systematic
analysis enabled us to achieve savings in every part of the factory by,
for example, optimizing cooling systems and introducing on-demand management of paint consumption in the paint shop.

§§ Safe and reliable water supply and sewerage. We aim to protect
groundwater reserves against pollution, and to avoid production
downtimes caused by water shortages.
§§ Efficient water use throughout the life cycle. By using water as
economically and efficiently as possible during the production process, and by recycling as much water as possible, we aim to reduce
total water consumption to the great possible extent.

93

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

Examples of Best Practice
§§ In 2016 alone, our Foshan plant successfully reduced its water
consumption by more than 26%, from 3.9 to 2.9 m³ per vehicle,
by implementing measures devised during the “Year of Water”.

§§ We use recycling facilities at some of the Group’s locations that
use a membrane process to prepare biologically precleaned waste
water for reuse, thereby reducing freshwater consumption levels.
In 2015, we brought a recycling facility on stream at our Salzgitter
plant. This facility processes half the plant’s wastewater into
recycled water and uses it to feed the central cooling tower. As a
result of this measure, we save around 75,000 m3 of freshwater
annually, equivalent to around a quarter of the plant’s needs.

In total, the Group saved 906,807 m³ of freshwater in 2016
compared with the previous year, thanks to a raft of individual
measures and optimizations. However, factors beyond our control,
such as fluctuating weather conditions, also influence freshwater
consumption. With water prices ranging from around €0.3 – €1.0
per m³, this translates into water supply cost savings of approximately €0.5 million in the reporting period.

§§ Our Uitenhage plant in South Africa has managed to reduce its
water consumption per vehicle by more than 50% (from 6.2 to
2.7 m³/vehicle). In 2015, this achievement so impressed the jury
of the annual Greening the Future Awards competition that the
plant won the national prize in the “Water Efficiency & Management” category.

In order to permanently implement water-saving processes within
the Group, a new internal White Paper defines key requirements for
the various processes in the production sequence.

WASTE
Wherever possible, we make great efforts to use standardized waste
management systems to optimize our waste management in all
divisions. These systems are already used to control waste manage­
ment processes in all German factories run by the Volkswagen,
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Porsche, Audi and MAN brands,
and for state-monitored disposal of hazardous waste in particular
(Electronic Government). The aim is to roll out these systems in
Europe and thereafter across regions around the world.
ŠKODA plants in the Czech Republic and Volkswagen plants in
Slovakia also use waste management systems. In 2015/16, implemen­
tation in the VW and SEAT plants in Spain, Portugal and Poland
was coordinated with in-house IT departments and preliminary
plans were drawn up. In 2017, plants in Spain will be equipped with
a waste management system.
In 2015, in order to review our waste management processes and
recycling, we introduced audits of waste disposal processes as a key
control mechanism at many of our sites. This reflects our duty of
care to ensure controlled, environmentally friendly waste disposal.
In Germany, a standardized procedure for these audits was developed in collaboration with other vehicle manufacturers (original
equipment manufacturers or OEMs) and major suppliers. In 2015
and 2016, we carried out audits across multiple locations and OEMs
in Europe. Audits have also been carried out in the regions, albeit
exclusively for Volkswagen’s own brands. In order to set a common
benchmark for the quality standards expected of waste disposal
services, we also trained potential auditors at a number of eastern
European sites, giving them the skills to carry out quality-assured
audits so that the results could also be used by other OEMs and
suppliers. Based on these positive experiences, similar training
programs will be organized at other sites. Descriptions of the audit
procedures, as well as audit documentation, are now available in
the languages of the various countries in which the Group operates,
with the exception of China.

By the end of 2016, the volume of waste for disposal per vehicle had
been reduced from 16.2 kg in 2015 to 15.2 kg, representing a reduction of 34.6% against the 2010 baseline.
We aim to use materials and products as efficiently as possible, and
so reduce the volume of waste per unit manufactured.
In order to achieve this goal, we have adopted a three-stage waste
strategy:
1. Prioritizing waste recycling and reducing waste for disposal
2. Reducing waste volumes via waste treatment
3. Reducing waste volumes by optimizing production and
ancillary processes

94

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

§§ At the Audi site in Neckarsulm, special containers for dewatering
paint sludge are being used experimentally. So far – and contrary
to previous experience – the experiment has been successful.
The system has reduced the residual liquid content of the sludge,
hence the amount of waste, and the sludge has a more solid
consistency. Whether the containers are suitable for permanent
use will be decided after a long-term pilot.

Production waste from packaging and workshops, as well as the
Technical Development department, is recycled to the highest
possible standards. For the recycling of waste from production and
logistics that has a resale value, such as paper, plastics, wood and
metal, our Purchasing department has rolled out a Group-wide system to improve the efficiency of the entire process. The focus here
is not only on revenue generation, but also on optimized preparation
of the waste for efficient transportation.

§§ At ŠKODA, transportable oil filtration systems are used to increase
the service life of oils and so reduce the amount of waste oil. In
addition, a new evaporator system for separating emulsions has
gone into operation at the Vrchlabi plant, aiming to reduce the
volume of waste emulsions for disposal. ŠKODA is also now using
washable – i.e. reusable – cleaning cloths instead of disposable
ones.

Examples of Best Practice
§§ In January 2016, an advanced waste management system was
introduced at our Bratislava plant for optimizing waste logistics
processes. Transponder technology (based on Data Matrix code)
is used to identify every single piece of waste at its point of origin
and track it seamlessly all the way through to final disposal. At
each stage of the disposal process, the system records the volume,
fill level, degree of sorting and condition of waste container locations, as well as any wrongly disposed materials. Working together
with the waste producers, the waste management department
uses the collected information to develop suitable measures for
optimizing container volumes, collection intervals, container
locations and disposal routes in response to ambient production
conditions. This tool has streamlined waste management at the
Bratislava plant, as reflected in, for example, the 15% reduction in
the amount of cost-incurring waste. Furthermore, substantially
less time is required to collate waste figures for reports.

§§ At the Braunschweig plant, press containers used for household-­
type commercial waste, cardboard, paper and plastic film are
equipped with a GPS signaling system. The system automatically
tracks the fill level and position of the containers. Once containers
are 75% full, a signal is automatically sent to the waste disposal
specialist for transport scheduling purposes. This has enabled the
plant to significantly increase full container weights and so reduce
the number of disposal runs.

GREEN LOGISTICS
Logistics is part of the Volkswagen Group’s environmental focus.
For example, we are optimizing the entire transport chain in order
to avoid CO2 emissions. The aim is to avoid transportation com­
pletely or else shift to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, and to reduce fuel consumption. We are pursuing measures
and activities for optimizing logistics processes across our brands.
The Corporate Green Logistics Working Group was set up in 2012.
The Group is responsible for coordinating and jointly developing
initiatives, accounting practices and training packages across the
Group.
Choosing the right means of transport is a key starting point for
reducing CO2 emissions. Maritime shipping is regarded as one of the
most efficient transport options. So the Volkswagen Group is now
involved in the Clean Shipping Network (CSN), an association of
marine cargo owners, and is represented on its management board.
CSN members can use the Clean Shipping Index (CSI) rating tool to
compare environmental efficiency figures such as the emissions of
individual ships on particular routes. This is useful for analyzing the
environmental impact of shipping. At the request of Volkswagen
AG and others, soot particles have now been included in the index,
alongside CO2, NOX , SOX , water and chemicals.

Starting in 2019, the Volkswagen Group will become one of the first
vehicle logistics OEMs to use two car-carrying vessels powered by
liquefied natural gas (LNG) supplied by Siem Car Carriers AS between
Europe and North America. The alternative, LNG-driven marine en­gine
is improving the environmental compatibility of marine trans­port
and sustainably reducing airborne pollution – CO2 by up to 25% and
NOX by up to 30%; soot particles by up to 60% and SOX by up to 100%.

Volkswagen Group Logistics is continuously expanding the number
of CSI-listed vessels in its own transport network. The ratio is
regularly updated and considered whenever the Group offers new
transport services to tender.

95

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Production and Logistics

The Group Consolidation Center that opened in 2016 in Malacky
near Bratislava is also helping to improve the environmentally
friendly profile of logistics within the Volkswagen Group. Optimized
thermal insulation is reducing heating costs; the use of double doors
in the loading and unloading area is ensuring that heat losses are
minimized, and LED lighting is cutting electricity consumption
by around 50%. At the same time, the bundling of freight in the
Consolidation Center has cut the daily traffic volume by an average
of around 90 trucks in goods incoming, and around 65 trucks in
goods dispatch.

Furthermore, the Group is constantly working to find and use alternative and more environmentally compatible transport options for
material logistics. Materials from Turkey destined for Volkswagen
Autoeuropa in Palmela, Portugal, have been shipped from Izmir to
Lisbon since late 2015. Previously, the materials traveled by truck.
By changing the means of transport, the company is saving 240 t of
CO2 per year and also cutting costs.

BIODIVERSITY
the soil and biodiversity at 32 locations belonging to the Volkswagen
Passenger Cars, Porsche and MAN brands.

Biodiversity signifies the variety of life on our planet, encapsulating
the variety of species, genetic differences within species, and the
diversity of ecosystems. We rely on it as the basis for our continued
existence: healthy food, clean water, fertile soils and a balanced
climate. Protecting biological diversity is one of the greatest societal
challenges of our time. The United Nations has thus declared the
current decade to be the “UN Decade on Biodiversity”.

One of the projects we jointly implemented with Naturschutzbund
Deutschland e.V. (NABU) was a wetland conservation project in
­Germany. In 2016, Volkswagen Financial Services AG once again
made a donation in support of NABU’s International Peatland
Conservation Fund. The company is currently sponsoring 13 wetland
conservation projects in various parts of Germany ranging from
Lower Saxony to Bavaria, as well as projects in Poland, Lithuania,
Latvia and Estonia.

Volkswagen has been committed to protecting biodiversity since
2007 and is a founder member of the Biodiversity in Good Company
e.V. initiative. In our mission statement, we promise to support the
protection of species at all locations. On the basis of this commitment, VW Mexico was invited to give a guest presentation at the
Business and Biodiversity Forum in Cancun in December 2016. The
Forum was part of the United Nations’ Conference of the Parties to
the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP13-CBD). We primarily
contribute to achieving the targets of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity by minimizing greenhouse gas emissions and utilizing
materials and resources as efficiently as possible. As a consequence
of the diesel issue, we are putting our membership of the Biodiversity in Good Company e.V. initiative on hold for the time being.

At our international sites, we collaborate with a range of partners to
support the protection of nature and biodiversity. This means we can
contribute to local implementation of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We also fund biodiversity research
at our Urumqi site in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. We have been
supporting the Dyer Island Conservation Trust in South Africa since
2011; in 2015, the Trust opened a care center for seabirds there.
Since 2012, Volkswagen Slovakia has been engaged in a joint venture
with Comenius University in Bratislava, breeding crayfish threatened
with extinction with the aim of resettling them in Slovakia’s streams
and rivers. In 2017, we are planning further research projects in
Slovakia’s nature reserves and lakes.

Biodiversity is a component of our environmental management.
We have, among other things, appointed a biodiversity officer and
commissioned external expert assessments of the risks to water,

96

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Sales, use and recycling

Sales, use
and recycling
Our philosophy of forward-thinking, environmentally minded
mo­bility spans every stage in the value chain. But the use phase is
pivotal – not just in terms of impact, but also because it is critical
to success as our customers’ needs continue to evolve. Fuel-efficient
vehicles are just one, albeit vital, component of progressive mobility

with a smaller carbon footprint. This is why we are committed to offering our customers the fullest possible range of mobility services,
and why the Group’s Environmental Strategy also embraces the final
stage of the vehicle’s life cycle: recycling.

SMART MOBILITY
tions against this yardstick. Using scientific criteria, a catalog of –
at the last count – 19 indicators has been developed and trialed in
six model cities around the world. In return, each of the partici­
pating cities is given a sustainability profile, while a database of
solutions also developed as part of the project reveals the most
effective measures for each indicator. In the spring of 2016, the
European Commission announced that it would actively support
the use of these indicators in cities.

Objective
Mobility is an essential prerequisite of a functioning society and
economic growth. Our aim is to make mobility even more efficient
and environmentally compatible, but also to enable more people
to play an active part in society – in line with the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We define “smart mobility”
as optimized interaction between road users, infrastructure and
different modes of transport. Digitalization and connectivity are
pivotal in preparing for the use of new products and services and
improving traffic flows. However, in addition to environmental protection, smart mobility is also synonymous with improved safety
and the economical use of traffic areas, for example through the use
of innovative assistance systems to circumvent traffic jams.

Research Projects
It is also important to produce reliable forecasts of the potential
impacts of future solutions on urban air quality, noise pollution or
traffic flow (impact assessment). This is where models and simulations make an important contribution, because many solutions
– such as dial-a-bus systems – only exert appreciable influence once
they have achieved a certain market penetration. Building on these
results, it is then possible to develop or optimize the right solutions
for the future with much greater exactitude.

Strategic Approach
During the reporting period, Volkswagen continued its long-standing systematic research into mobility issues. In order to develop
appropriate, intelligent solutions, auto mobility must be treated as
part of a complete system that incorporates other modes of transport, human settlement patterns, urban and infrastructural developments, new technologies – especially automatic driving, digitalization, electric mobility and connectivity – as well as trending demand
(e.g. carsharing, vehicle sharing) and other influencing factors. Part
of our strategic approach is to maintain an intensive dialog with the
general public and academia.

In parallel with the ongoing automation of driving functions, innovative methods for identifying situations and using them to calculate
traffic-efficient driving strategies are gaining in importance. We are
further expanding our research activities in these areas in order to
make the most of the limited road area in the vicinity of urban junctions and other sensitive nodes in the traffic system.
More and more of us live in cities. Traffic noise impairs our quality
of life, and is produced by many different means of transport. At
Volkswagen, we are very aware of our responsibilities as a manufacturer of one of those means of transport in particular – the auto­
mobile – and are working intensively on ways to steadily reduce
noise emissions from individual vehicles. In these efforts to reduce
noise, Volkswagen is even going one step further. We are using a
specially developed tool to calculate noise pollution levels in cities
and further develop our understanding of the role of the car, assess
interactions between different noise sources, and evaluate various
measures for reducing noise. Our aim is to improve the noise situa­
tion for urban residents in general by entering into dialog with
cities and fellow noise emitters.

Challenges and their possible solutions, especially in towns and
cities, once again featured high on the mobility agenda for both
the general public and academia. Our film “Urban Mobility 2030”
helped us refine our strategic appreciation of the challenges posed
by urban mobility and the various potential solutions, and to open
it up for debate – for example at DRIVE, the Volkswagen Group
Forum in Berlin.
Since 2013, Volkswagen has been collaborating with 14 other
companies from various industries on the Sustainable Mobility 2.0
project launched by the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD). A sustainable approach to future urban
mobility needs a credible definition of what the word “sustainable”
actually means, and a way of measuring current and future solu-

97

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Sales, use and recycling

Volkswagen AG supported the INEES research project by providing 20 VW e-up! cars. VW e-up! energy consumption in
kWh/100 km: 11.7 (combined); CO2 emissions in g/km: 0 (combined); efficiency rating: A+

MOBILITY SERVICES

AUDI E-GAS FUEL CARD AND
GREEN GAS PRODUCTION

Mobility Solutions is one of the four cornerstones of our new
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025.
In future, the Group plans to invest in carsharing, robotaxis and
transport-on-demand initiatives. The strategic partnership with
on-demand mobility company GETT is one such initiative, aimed at
expanding the Group’s Mobility Solutions portfolio.

Drivers of the Audi A3 Sportback g-tron can become almost
entirely carbon-neutral, thanks to the Audi e-gas fuel card.
Audi records the amount of gas each customer purchases
with the card, and ensures that exactly the same quantity of
synthetically produced, renewable Audi e-gas is fed into the
German natural-gas network to compensate. The e-gas is
produced by the world’s largest industrial power-to-gas plant
on the grid, which uses a chemical process based on wind
power, CO2 and water to generate synthetic methane, effectively “storing” green electricity in the existing natural-gas
network. In 2015, following a successful test sequence, the
plant qualified to participate in the balancing energy market.
Thus the effects of the Audi e-gas project extend well beyond
the automotive industry.

With the rapid expansion of Internet commerce, the number of
packages being delivered in towns and cities is rising sharply, resulting in escalating traffic volumes. If deliveries fail because there is
no-one to accept the delivery, this is a negative outcome for all parties involved – but also for the environment. Consequently, we aim
to create synergies between passenger and goods transportation by
devising new logistics concepts that avoid unnecessary journeys.
One possible solution, developed in cooperation between Audi and
Group Research, is the so-called “parcel car”. In the era of networked
vehicles, a car boot (trunk) becomes a mobile delivery address to
which logistics service providers can gain keyless access. Thanks to
this temporary access authorization, by the time the recipient leaves
work, the package is already safely in their car boot. Audi AG is jointly testing this solution – dubbed “Audi connect easy delivery” – with
DHL Paket and Amazon in Munich, and is preparing to launch it with
a view to making the concept available to all Group vehicles in the
future.

Eco-friendly Driving
Regardless of model or brand, alongside the development of ever
more efficient vehicles, eco-friendly driving habits are a major factor
in reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, not to mention
noise and pollutant emissions. With this in mind, we support our
customers by offering a range of courses:

MOBILITY MANAGEMENT AT OUR SITES
Of course smart mobility also includes providing solutions for
our own employees at Volkswagen sites with what we call
“mobility management”. This includes, but is not limited to,
cars and parking spaces. Examples include cycling campaigns,
shuttle-bus services, season tickets for public transport,
the provision of ridesharing apps, and parking spaces for
carpools.

§§ Customers can also book “Think Blue. Eco-Training.” courses
directly with Volkswagen in Germany, Hong Kong and Singapore.
§§ Plenty of fuel-saving hints and tips are provided in dedicated
brochures and car manuals

98

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Sales, use and recycling

SAVE FUEL WITH “THINK BLUE. TRAINER.”

SCANIA ECOLUTION

“Think Blue. Trainer.” is a driver assistance program offering
vital information on current fuel consumption during journeys
as a way of encouraging eco-friendlier driving habits. It already
features in the e-up! and up! models with conventional power­
trains, as well as the Polo and Passat, and will gradually be
rolled out to other models. The range of functions offered by the
“Think Blue. Trainer.” program can be further extended with the
“Volkswagen Car-Net Think Blue. Trainer.” app, which communicates with the vehicle and can be operated via the infotainment
system. The app also contains training challenges for additional
motivation. All trips are automatically stored, and can be used
later for cross-comparison.

Ecolution by Scania combines our tailored products with driver
services. Based on continuous customer dialogue, the common
goal is improved fuel efficiency. Through optimized vehicle
specifications, performance diagnostics, driver training and
monthly follow-ups, our results show an average 10% reduction
in fuel consumption.

SCANIA FUEL MASTERS
Scania Fuel Masters, a new interactive competition site that
Scania launched in October 2015, allows drivers to compare their
most fuel-efficient journeys with each other via their mobile
phones.

Audi Mobility Services
Audi offers three innovative carsharing services: Audi shared fleet,
Audi select and Audi on demand.

The Audi select service targets private individuals and corporate
customers alike. Over a 12-month period, customers can drive three
different Audi models – and for six months, choose a Ducati as well.
A premium pool of low-mileage, well-equipped second-hand cars is
available for this service.

With Audi shared fleet, companies can customize their own corporate fleets. Depending on the individual arrangement, Audi takes
care of the on-site implementation and maintenance of the corporate vehicle fleet – from supplying carpool vehicles to regularly
servicing, fueling and cleaning them. The highlight: employees can
use the pool vehicles for business and private trips. This increases
employees’ mobility – even after regular working hours – and can
be used as an additional incentive by employers. Even better, Audi
shared fleet enhances fleet utilization and cost efficiency.

Audi on demand is a mobility service that gives customers flexible
access to premium mobility. Whether for spontaneous short adventures or longer business trips, customers can book the right Audi
online; cars are available in a matter of minutes. Munich Airport is
the first Audi on demand location in Germany.

PRODUCT COMMUNICATION

CARSHARING

Alongside the development of ever more fuel-efficient new models,
the Volkswagen Group boasts a wide range of other offerings for
eco-friendly mobility. Our product communications spotlight particularly efficient vehicles and low-carbon technologies by awarding
them efficiency badges, and report on the environmental progress
new models have made over their predecessors by means of Life
Cycle Assessments and Environmental Commendations.

In 2013, Volkswagen Financial Services, together with its
partner Pon Holdings B.V., acquired a stake in market-leading
Dutch carsharing company Collect Car B.V., better known as
Greenwheels.

Porsche has also launched a sustainability initiative to support
dealers, aimed at improving the energy efficiency of existing Porsche
Centers and ensuring that new centers are made as energy-efficient
as possible.

99

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Environment Sales, use and recycling

RECYCLING
Recycling makes a key contribution to reducing our products’ impact
on the environment and conserving resources. This is not just about
recycling vehicles at the end of their service life; recycling starts
at the new-vehicle development stage, during which we pay close
attention to the recyclability of the required materials, the use of
high-quality recycled materials, and the avoidance of pollutants. At
the same time, we factor in aspects of the use phase, for instance
the treatment and disposal of service fluids or high-wear components.
Volkswagen is also constantly working on developing and enhancing
recycling methods, processes and technologies. We have developed
a multi-award-winning process, VW-SiCon, that allows end-of-life
vehicles to be 85% recycled and 95% recovered. This complies with
the regulatory requirements that have been in force in the EU since
the beginning of the reporting period. With our partners, we are developing modern technologies for recycling components from elec-

tric vehicles in two research projects: LithoRec (lithium-ion battery
recycling) and ElmoRel (electric vehicle recycling – key components
in power electronics).
Audi also presented a pilot project for the reuse of traction batteries
from e-tron models, which could significantly extend the useful
life of lithium-ion batteries and substantially improve the environ­
mental impact and cost-effectiveness of vehicles with electric
powertrains. Giving batteries a second lease of life by using them
as stationary accumulators makes an important contribution to the
transition to renewable energy sources.
Last but not least, we should mention the Volkswagen Passenger
Cars Genuine Exchange Parts program. Our industrial reconditioning
produces high-quality exchange parts that conserve resources and
offer the same quality, functionality and warranty as the corresponding new parts while being on average 40% cheaper.

MAN TRUCK & BUS
MAN Truck & Bus professionally remanufactures used parts for
use in vehicle repairs under the “MAN Original Teile® ecoline”
brand. The range includes more than 3,000 items. This helps conserve resources, save energy, and cut costs by an average of 30%.
We also offer customers in most areas of Europe an extensive
portfolio of replacement and spare parts.

100

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Sustainable through an through

Facts and Figures
In this chapter, we report on how our key financial, personnel and environmental indicators have developed over recent
years. These indicators provide information on what has already been achieved, but they also highlight areas where
there is still room for improvement. The charts and figures are therefore followed by a presentation of our goals and an
estimation of the extent to which those goals have been achieved.

Sustainable through an through
G4-17

The Volkswagen Group is committed to sustainable, transparent and
responsible corporate governance.The principles of our sustainability
management are described in detail in the Strategy chapter, as are
our continuous improvement goals. Our goals and actions, together
with planned activities and current status, are presented in greater
detail at the end of this chapter.
The chapter Guidelines and Principles provide an overview of the
Group-wide principles, agreements and methods that form the basis
for our shared understanding of sustainability across the Group,
allowing performance to be measured, controlled and improved.

MANAGEMENT BY KEY INDICATORS
In order to manage its sustainability performance, the Volkswagen Group collects central performance indicators in line with the
requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the ESG
(Environment, Social, Governance) indicator framework of the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS). Increasingly,
shareholders and investors demand transparency, and this makes
them an important target group for our sustainability reporting.
In recognition of this, we provide an overview of our economic,
environmental and social performance in the following chapters
on Financial Indicators, Environmental Indicators and Personnel
Indicators. The overview is as comprehensive as possible and stated
in quantitative terms.
The key indicators we present are a continuation of those from
previous years. There have been no changes in the methods used to
report and measure our sustainability performance. The Volkswagen
Group’s global production network comprised 120 production locations at the end of the reporting year. This is now the fourth time we
have reported our emissions in line with Scope 3 of the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol (GHG), which makes us one of the trailblazers in our
industry.

Frame of Reference		

G4-17, G4-22, G4-23

In general, the indicators relate to the entire Group, including any
companies in which our equity interest exceeds 50%. For our joint
ventures in China, we report social indicators “at equity”, in other
words at 50%, but including 100% of environmentally relevant
data. However, due to differing definitions or collection methods,
it is not yet possible to consolidate the data reported by the brands
and regions in all areas, which means that there are still numerous
exceptions. In this report indicators which are only relate to parts of
the Group are marked with footnotes and explaining which parts.
Over the coming years, we will continue to endeavor to make data
collection uniform across all locations and companies.

AUDITING AND STANDARDS
The Volkswagen Group Sustainability Report 2016 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) against the relevant requirements and criteria
laid down in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the
Global Reporting Initiative, taking supplementary account of the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000
(Revised). The audit activities carried out by PwC include: management surveys, surveys of employees responsible for reporting
sustainability information, and recording of the processes used
to collect, calculate and report sustainability information. In the
following Indicators chapters, the quantitative details of the 2016
reporting period audited by PwC are marked with the symbol
Further information about the audit can be found in the Independent Assurance Report.

ADDITIONAL REPORTING WITHIN THE GROUP
More detailed insights into our environmental management
approach are provided by the Environmental Statements which
numerous locations compile as part of their voluntary participation
in the European EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) system.
The sustainability reports of the Audi, MAN, Porsche, Scania and
ŠKODA brands are also indicative of the Group’s commitment to
sustainability.
101

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Financial Indicators

Financial Indicators
detailed presentation of financial indicators can be found in the current Volkswagen Group Annual Report. The indicators shown below
comply with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the entire 2012 to 2016 period.

Volume Data1,2
in thousands

Financial Data1
in € million

102

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Financial Indicators

Added Value Generated by the Volkswagen Group
(Appropriation of funds)*
in € million

103

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Financial Indicators

Key Figures by Brand and Business Field1

104

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

Personnel Indicaters
The Volkswagen Group including the Chinese joint venture employed on average 626,715 people (+3.0%) in financial year 2016. Domestically
in 2016, on average 279,993 people were under contract; their share of the total workforce was slightly below the level of the previous year
with 44.7% (45.6%). As of December 31, 2016, the number of active employees in the Volkswagen Group was at 601,443 (+2.8%). In addition,
5,782 employees were in the passive phase of partial retirement and 19,490 young people (+4.5%) were in a training relationship. At the end
of the year under review the workforce of the Volkswagen Group came to 626,715 people (+3.0%). Essential factors for the rise in employee
numbers were the hiring of qualified staff above all in Germany and China, the volume-based growth abroad and the staff increase in our new
plants in Mexico and Poland. Domestically there were 281,518 people employed (+1.0%), abroad 345,197 (+4.2%) by 31 December 2016.

Number of Employees

Workforce

in the Volkswagen Group by Segment

in the Volkswagen Group

15,785
Financial Services

0

114,159
Commercial Vehicles/
Power Engineering

496,771
Passenger Cars

Number of Employees
in the Volkswagen Group by Type of Work

105

200,000

400,000

600,000

800,000

2016

626,715

2015

610,076

2014

592,586

2013

572,800

2012

549,763

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

Number of Employees
in the Volkswagen Group by Regions

Female Employees*
in the Volkswagen Group (in %)
0

5

10

15

20

2016

16.0

2015

16.0

2014

15.7

2013

15.2

2012

15.2

* since 2011 incl. Scania.
Since 2013 incl. MAN and Porsche.

Proportion of Women1
in the Volkswagen Group in Germany (in %)

It is the goal of the company to further increase the proportion of
women from Group-wide 16.0%. This applies in particular to the
management. In the year under review the proportion of women in
the management circles of the Volkswagen Group in Germany could
already be increased to 8.7% in upper management and 12.8% in

the management circle (status at year-end without Scania, MAN or
Porsche). In top management the proportion rose from 3.8% in 2015
to 4.7% in the year under review (status at year-end without Scania,
MAN or Porsche).

106

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

Apprentices

in the Volkswagen Group

Apprentices

Level of Qualification*

in the Volkswagen Group in Germany (in %)

in the Volkswagen Group (in %)

0

1

2

3

4

5

0

2016

4.6

2015

4.7

2014

4.8

2013

4.8

2012

4.8

10

20

30

40

50

60
21.5
59.2

2016

16.1
3.1
20.9
59.8

2015

16.2
3

Higher education

Vocational education and training

Secondary education

Other

* Ohne Scania.
Ab 2014 inkl. MAN.

The total number of apprentices rose, remaining a constant proportion of the overall workforce over the reporting period.

ensure that the number of trainees remains almost constant even in
economically difficult times.

The percentage share of trainees in the total workforce of the Volkswagen Group has been around 5% for years. Collective regulations

Through targeted personnel selection, the Volkswagen Group employs
a high share of qualified employees. Around 97% of employees have
completed training.

107

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

Employee Age structure
in the Volkswagen Group (in %)

0

5

10

20

25
0.4

< 20 years

1.7
3.7

20 – 29 years

19.3
4.8

30 – 39 years

22.8
4.2

40 – 49 years

21.3
2.5

50 – 59 years

16.4
0.3

> 60 years

Women

15

2.6
Men

Average Age
at Volkswagen AG

The average age in Volkswagen AG has remained relatively constant since 2011 – a sign that the adding
of trained people and the departure due to age of long-standing employees is in balance.

Employee Turnover*
at Volkswagen AG (in %)

The fluctuation rate states what percentage of employees leave the company in a year. The chart shows
that the stability of the employment relationships at Volkswagen is very high.
108

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

Average period of Employment

Absenteeism*

at Volkswagen AG (in years)

Cumulative values (in %)

0

5

10

15

20

0

1

2

3

4

2016

18.6

2016

3.9

2015

18.3

2015

3.7

2014

18.4

2014

3.4

2013

19.0

2013

3.3

2012

19.1

2012

3.2

* Production locations with over 1,000 employees, excluding
Scania, MAN, Ducati, Shanghai Volkswagen Powertrain
and Volkswagen Automatic Transmission.
From 2014: including Porsche. From 2015: including MAN Germany.

Illness-related absence from the workplace not only represents a
considerable cost factor for production companies but also a major
logistical problem for staff deployment planning. A stronger offer
in diagnostics and prevention can support a low working-time-lost
ratio. The working time lost in the company is calculated according

to the following formula: Absence days × 100/payment-relevant
days (payment-relevant days are days on which work performance
was expected from the employee).

Parental Leave*
at Volkswagen AG

Returning from Parental Leave

Foreign Service Employees*

at Volkswagen AG (2016)

in the Volkswagen Group

586
Women

0

3,044
Total
2,458
Men

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

5,000

2016

4,526

2015

4,716

2014

4,507

2013

4,052

2012

3,836

From Germany

To Germany

Except Germany

* From 2013 incl. new Group companies MAN, Scania,
Porsche AG, Ducati and Porsche Holding.

109

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Personnel Indicaters

For the deployments from Germany we are talking about all
employees from German group companies that found themselves
on foreign assignment as of the reporting date (in each case De­
cember 31). The deployments to Germany include all assignments
of foreign group employees in German group companies. The
deployments “except Germany”, so-called third-country deploy-

ments, represent how many employees of foreign group companies
were assigned to countries other than Germany or their respective
homeland. This includes foreign assignments that take place on a
contract basis (FSE assignments), business travellers are not included
here.

Accident Indexes*

Accident Severity*

in the Volkswagen Group

in the Volkswagen Group

0

1

2

3

5

0
3.5

2016

3.4

3.6

2.9

40,000
38,922
2,769
36,420
2,540
35,361
2,646
28,134

2013

4.4
2.9

2012

30,000

2014

4.8

2013

20,000

2015

4.9

2014

10,000

2016

5.0

2015

Accident frequency

4

1,855
25,907

2012

4.3
Accident severity

Working days lost

1,728
Number of occupational accidents

* Production locations excl. Scania.
From 2014 incl. MAN.

* Production locations excl. Scania.
From 2014 incl. MAN.

The accident frequency index provides information about how frequently industrial accidents have happened, in relation to the total of
all work hours performed. The underlying calculation formula reads
as follows: the number of industrial accidents × 1 million/work hours
performed. The accident severity index shows the severity of accidents

by putting the number of workdays lost due to accidents in relation
to the work hours performed. The underlying calculation formula
reads as follows: the number of work days lost × 1 million/work hours
performed × 10.

110

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Environmental Indicators
As in previous years we are also reporting important environmental key figures of production for the year under review 2016.
Selected environmental data of the Volkswagen Group are presented here in aggregate form. The data are determined, checked and released
to the production locations on the basis of a group-internal standard (VW standard 98 000). In order to increase the degree of precision and
the consistency of the information gained, the gathering of the environment-relevant consumption and emission data is subject to a continuous improvement process. This applies in particular to that information that has to be determined with the aid of special calculation algorithms.
Furthermore, the values for the December of the past year can contain an estimated portion if for instance it is based on settlements from
energy suppliers or waste removers, that at the time of the data gathering were not available. These estimated portions will be replaced at the
next data collection by the then known December values.
In analogy to the company-internal environmental strategy enforcement, the time series depicted refer to the base year 2010. The current
year under review and the corresponding previous year complete the reporting period.
In total, the environmental data from the production locations are being collected. In addition, starting from the data year 2016 the production locations of Września (Volkswagen Poznań Sp..z o.o.), Września (SITECH Sp. z o.o.), San José Chiapa (Audi México S.A. de C.V) and Amphur
Pluakdaeng Rayong (Ducati Motor (Thailand) Co. Ltd.) were included in the collection.
The data from the category “Private and light commercial vehicles” for the years 2010, 2015 and 2016 are reported as in the Volkswagen
annual report. The data of the brands Scania AB, MAN SE, Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. and the VW Kraftwerk GmbH are reported in the
category “Other group divisions”. The respective proportions are presented differentiated in the charts. If not reported otherwise, all producing
locations of the Group as well as the power plants and boiler houses operated by Volkswagen AG at the Wolfsburg, Kassel and Hanover
locations are taken into account.
However, only 112 of the 120 Group production locations are included in the coverage of the data. No data is available for the seven Regional
Product Centres of Scania or for the Bangalore location of MAN. These correspond to approx. 0.15% of the employees of the producing locations and thus have no relevant influence on the key figures of the Group.
The Volkswagen Group is essentially an automotive manufacturer that produces private and light commercial vehicles as well as heavy
commercial vehicles and buses. But in the MAN SE marine propulsion engines and power plant components are also produced. Due to this
product diversity the overall environmental impacts cannot summarily refer to the production quantity of the vehicles. For this reason the
presentation of the relative key figures occurs only for the category “Private and light commercial vehicles”. Their production quantity in the
year 2016 came to 10,219,025 vehicles. In addition, 186,067 heavy commercial vehicles were produced.
The changing production quantities and the associated changes in the utilization of the locations are reflected in the changes to the absolute
values of many indicators. An improvement of specific values could be achieved for some indicators through measures to increase efficiency.
Relevant, but not able to be influenced, are the weather-related influences on the consumption of resources. This above all impacts the room
heating requirements, both for the production sites and for the indirect sectors of production since the annual mean temperatures have
an impact on the direct consumption of energy sources and of externally procured energy quantities.
The specific values are thus influenced by various aspects. On the one hand the absolute consumption or emissions can change, on the other
rising or falling production quantities at the individual production locations influence the key figure trends.

111

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Energy consumption*

Energy consumption*

in million MWh/year
0

in kWh/vehicle
3

6

9

12

0

15

200

400

600

800

1,000

1,200
1,088

12.36
6.87

2016

2016

599
404

4.25

1,087

11.96
6.84

2015

619

2015

4.08

400

9.45
2010

1,197
855

2010

6.46
3.47

467

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Electricity
Heat

Electricity
Heat

Other divisions

Fuel gases for manufacturing processes

Fuel gases for
manufacturing processes

* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

The total energy consumption since 2010 has risen due to the continuous increase in the production quantity.

requirements, the development of the total heat requirements is
strongly influenced by the course of weather conditions.

The consumption of electrical energy has also risen in comparison to
2010. The electrical energy consumption per vehicle could be reduced
since 2010 through measures to increase efficiency.

Various initiatives coupled with reduced heating demand have
caused specific heat consumption per vehicle to fall since 2010.

The heat consumption is divided into the room heat requirements
for the heating of production plants and their indirect sectors
and into the room heat requirements that are used for technical
processes. Since the room heat is the greater share of the total heat

The already named effects due to a colder weather phase and an increase in production quantity lead to a rise in the absolute consumption of fuel gas for production processes. Also associated with this is
a slight worsening in the specific value per vehicle.

Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1)*

Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1)*

in million tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

0

1

2

3

4

0

5

100

200

300

400

500

600

2016

4.23

2016

396

2015

4.25

2015

413

2010

4.32

2010

588

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions

* Cars and light commercial vehicles

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions

112

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Despite the recording of new production locations and of the associated increased energy consumption, the direct CO2 emissions in
the category private and light commercial vehicles and in the entire
Group are on the decline since 2010.
The direct CO2 emissions are coupled with the burning of fossil fuels,
whose use could be reduced. A reduction in the direct CO2 emissions
per vehicle is also to be noted with the reduction in the absolute
emissions quantity.

CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2)*

CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2)*

in million tonnes/year
0

2

4

6

8

Not taken into account are the direct CO2 emissions of the official
works vehicles. Work is currently being done on the worldwide uniform recording of emissions of the official works vehicles fleet. Initial
calculations for the Volkswagen Germany control volume indicate
an increase in the total CO2 emissions of 3.4% in the control volume
investigated.

in kg/vehicle
0

10

200

400

600

800

1,000

1,200

2016

9.51

2016

883

2015

9.21

2015

882

2010

8.04

2010

1,096

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions
* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

Starting in 2010, due to the increases in consumption for electrical
energy, heat and fuel gas for production, the overall CO2 emissions
rose. The CO2 emissions per vehicle rose minimally from 2015 to
2016, but could be dramatically reduced since 2010.
Via the valuation of the energy and heat consumption of the production locations with suitable CO2 emission factors, the CO2 emissions generated by the power plants and boiler houses operated by
Volkswagen AG – from the electricity and heat generation for the
production locations of Volkswagen AG – also flow into the overall
quantity of CO2 emissions. Due to the changed CO2 emission fac-

CO2 equivalents*
0.02

0.04

As a special feature in the region of China, starting in 2013 CO2
factors are being used due to external specifications that do not
reflect the rising share of renewable energies.
Not included in the presentations of the CO2 emissions are the
emissions that come about due to the power plants operated by
Volkswagen AG as district heating and electricity delivery to third
parties. For 2016 this is 374,118 tonnes of CO2 emissions.

CO2 equivalents*

in million tonnes/year
0.00

tors from this energy generation, it came to a rise in the absolute
and the specific total CO2 emissions compared to the previous year.

in kg/vehicle
0.06

0.08

0

0.10

2

4

6

8

10

2016

0.081

2016

7.43

2015

0.086

2015

8.56

2010

0.067

2010

9.21

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions

* Cars and light commercial vehicles.
* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

113

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

The determination of CO2 equivalents is based on calculations on
the basis of specific global warming potential for the most frequently emitted refrigerants and greenhouse gases. Since these emissions
do not appear continuously, it can come to larger fluctuations in a
time series. However, these emissions have no significant influence
on the CO2 emissions of the Group.

GHG emissions (Scope 3)
in the Volkswagen Group (cars and light commercial vehicles)

In agreement with the Scope 3 Standards published with the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the
World Resources Institute, Volkswagen reports CO2 emissions on
twelve of in total 15 Scope 3 categories, whereby we count among
the world’s leading companies. The calculations have yielded that in
the emission categories of “Purchased goods and services” and “Use
phase” approx. 92% of the entire Scope 3 volume is accrued. The

calculation of CO2 emissions in the use phase is based on a Group
fleet value, which represents the global vehicle inventory in the four
large regions (EU28, USA, Brazil, China). In order to get as complete
a picture as possible, Volkswagen also records the emissions in this
category that are accrued during manufacture and the transport of
fuels (well to tank).

114

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

CO2 emission
of the Volkswagen Group’s European (EU 28) New Passenger Car Fleet
in g/km
0

30

60

90

120

150

2016

120

2015

121

2014

126

2013

129

2012

135

The EU private-vehicle new-car fleet of the Volkswagen Group (excluding Lamborghini and Bentley) in the year under review emitted
on average 120.4g CO2/km, thus falling under the European ambient
standard for 2015 of 130g CO2/km by 9.6g and almost reaching
its own objective of 120g. The Lamborghini and Bentley brands each

own an independent fleet within the context of the European CO2
legislation and have also adhered to their individual target values.
The fleet value in the USA is at 162g CO2/km, in China at 153g CO2/
km and in Brazil at 131g CO2/km.

VOC emissions*

VOC emissions*

in tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

0

10,000

20,000

30,000

40,000

0

1

2

3

4

2016

25,719

2016

2.42

2015

28,634

2015

2.80

2010

30,347

2010

4.13

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Other divisions
* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

The painting processes are primarily responsible for the VOC emissions. In modern painting plants paints and process materials are
used that contain lower quantities of solvents. Plus, measures are
taken in the painting processes to capture or eliminate emitted
solvents. The process used the most is thermal afterburning the
exhaust air which is downstream from the actual painting process.

The ascertainment of emissions into the environment is based both
on metrological analyses as well as on calculations.
Despite a rise in vehicle production since 2010 and the associated
greater paint volume, it came to a reduction in the absolute
VOC emissions. It was possible to dramatically reduce the emissions
per vehicle.

115

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Waste for disposal1, 2

Waste for disposal3

in tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

0

30,000

60,000

90,000

120,000

0
55,376

2016

62,325

103,037

Cars and light commercial vehicles

12

15
4.94
10.28
5.57
10.63
14.03

2010

71,094

Non-hazardous waste for disposal

9

2015

115,888

2010

6

2016

114,162

2015

3

9.27

Hazardous waste for disposal

Non-hazardous waste for disposal

Other divisions

Hazardous waste for disposal

1
The bars for “Non-hazardous waste for disposal” and “Hazardous waste for disposal”
indicate the share attributable to other Group divisions. This is not depicted for the other
fractions, however, due to their minimal share in these amounts.
2
Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.
3
Cars and light commercial vehicles.

Waste for recycling1, 2

Waste for recycling3

in tonnes/year

in kg/vehicle

0

500,000

0

1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000

50

100

2016

147,345

2016

2015

140,575

12.19

33.28

298,753
2010

97,607

12.43
217.27

1,845,474

Hazardous waste for disposal

12.70

217.89

2,258,323

Non-hazardous waste for disposal

250

44.54

508,408

2010

200

211.19

2,274,082

2015

150

43.74

517,439

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Non-hazardous waste for disposal
Hazardous waste for disposal

Other divisions

Metallic waste

Metallic waste

1
The bars for “Non-hazardous waste for recycling”, “Hazardous waste for recycling”
and “Metallic waste” indicate the share attributable to other Group divisions. This is not
depicted for the other fractions, however, due to their minimal share in these amounts
2
Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.
3
Cars and light commercial vehicles.

116

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Due to the rise in production quantity compared to 2010 in the
category of private and light commercial vehicles, the entire amount
of dangerous and non-dangerous wastes generated also rose. The
share of waste for removal contained in this category could be reduced from approx. 34% in 2010 to approx. 21% in 2016. In contrast
the share of waste for recycling increased from approx. 66% in 2010
to approx. 79% in 2016. The increase in the share of recyclable waste
is also the result of the waste strategy established in the Group that
has a higher recycling ratio of waste as its goal.

The absolute quantity of metallic “wastes”, which due to their
complete recycling potential and due to the returns achieved from
their sale are viewed internally as so-called “resources”, has risen
over the entire reporting period since 2010. The reason for this was
the Group-wide increase in production. When considering all wastes,
including the metallic wastes, the recovery rate lies at approx. 95%.

Freshwater

Freshwater

and wastewater*

in million m3/year
0

In the past year under review due to the operation of energy generation plants by the Volkswagen Kraftwerk GmbH, power plant residues
in the amount of approx. 145,000 tonnes has been allocated to
recycling.

and wastewater*

in m3/vehicle
10

20

30

40

50

60

2016

53.25

Wastewater volume

2015

32.96
37.23

2010

1

2016

32.22

2015

Freshwater volume

0
52.28

2010

27.93

2

3

4

5
3.90
2.97
4.14
3.17
4.54
3.76

Freshwater volume

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Wastewater volume

Other divisions

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

With the increase in the number of private and light commercial vehicles produced, the total consumption of fresh water has also risen
in recent years. This increase in consumption is due to the integration of new locations into the reporting. Despite the rise in the number of Group locations, it was possible to continuously decrease the
fresh-water consumption per vehicle in the reporting period since
2010. This was achieved through a variety of recycling measures and
the introduction of production procedures requiring little water.

The quantity of wastewater accrued shows a similar pattern to that
of the fresh water. Due to evaporative losses in the cooling towers
and in the production process there are quantity differences between fresh and wastewater. The quantity of wastewater per private
and light commercial vehicle produced could also be lowered.

117

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Wastewater discharges1, 2

Water withdrawal by source1, 2

in million m3/year

in million m3/year

0

5

10

15

20

0

25

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

8.99

2016

6.58

21.36

1.17

2016

32.07

9.29

2015

7.01

21.94

1.40

2015

9.85

2010

32.3

24.00
2.04

Receiving stream

0.21

2010

Municipal effluent treatment plant

2.79
Groundwater

2

1
Cars and light commercial vehicles.
In 2010, differentiated figures for the Group as a whole were not yet available.

Rainwater/surface water
Purchased freshwater

1
Cars and light commercial vehicles.
Figures for 2014 and 2015 include all Passenger Car and Commercial Vehicle locations;
figures for 2010 only apply to Volkswagen AG and Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH locations,
because differentiated figures were not yet available for all Group locations.
2

Depending on the location of the wastewater purification system,
locations are differentiated as follows: as an indirect discharger
those where the wastewater is discharged into the municipal sewage collection system for further cleaning, and as a direct discharger
those that operate their own wastewater treatment system, thereby discharging the cleaned wastewater directly into a body of water.

Direct NOx and SO2 emissions*

Direct NOx and SO2 emissions*

in tonnes/year
0

1,000

2,000

3,000

4,000

in g/vehicle

0

5,000
4,099

2016

4,086

4,331

Cars and light commercial vehicles

Nitrogen oxides (NOx as NO2)

Sulfur dioxide (SO2)

400
194
2
193
1

373

2010

2,085

Nitrogen oxides (NOx as NO2)

300

2015

1,521

2010

200

2016

1,026

2015

100

51
Sulfur dioxide (SO2)

Other divisions

* Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.

A clear decline in the absolute NOx values as well as in the NOx emissions is to be recorded per vehicle in the category of private and light
commercial vehicles in the period from 2010 to 2016.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

The strong decline in the direct SO2 emissions since the year 2010
is a result of changes in the positions regarding ownership in a
power-­generation plant and the replacement of coal as the fuel.

118

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

Particulate emissions*

Particulate emissions*

in tonnes/year

in g/vehicle

0

50

100

150

200

250

300

350

0

400

20

40

60

80

100

2016

343

2016

69

2015

371

2015

75

2010

380

2010

98

* Cars and light commercial vehicles Europa (total dust).

The development of airborne particulate emissions in the category
private and light commercial vehicles at the European production

* Cars and light commercial vehicles Europa (total dust).

locations of the Group are among other things connected to the
increase in production.

Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)1, 2

Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)*

in tonnes/year

in g/vehicle

0

2,000

4,000

6,000

0

8,000

200

400

600

800

2016

6,276

2016

595

2015

6,022

2015

612

2010

4,043

2010

555

Cars and light commercial vehicles

1

Cars and light commercial vehicles and other divisions.
2
Other divisions have not been highlighted in the
graphic due to the low proportions involved.

* Cars and light commercial vehicles.

The absolute wastewater parameter “Chemical oxygen demand
(COD)” develops similarly to the fresh-water consumption and

wastewater amount key figures. This parameter is an indicator for
the wastewater’s degree of contamination.

Environmental protection costs*

Environmental protection costs*

in € million/year

in € million/vehicle

0

50

2016

2015

2010

100

150

200

0

250
11

50

2016

223
21

2015

244
12

2010

197

Capital expenditure

Capital expenditure

Operating costs

Operating costs
* Volkswagen AG production locations in Germany

The environmental protection costs are reported for the German
locations of Volkswagen AG.
When it comes to expenses for environmental protection measures,
differentiation is made between investments and operation costs

100

150

200

250
9
180
19
226
11
179

* Volkswagen AG production locations in Germany.

for the production-related environmental protection. Of the total
investments the positions accounted to the environmental protection investments are those that are done with the sole or dominant
objective of environmental protection. Differentiation is made between end-of-pipe and integrated investments. End-of-pipe environ119

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Environmental Indicators

mental protection measures are separate plants separated from the
remaining production process. They can be up- or downstream from
the production process. In contrast to the end-of-pipe environmental
protection measures, the integrated measures already reduce the
environmental impact during the production phase of the product.

The reported operating costs solely concern production-related environmental protection measures that protect the environment from
damaging influences by avoiding, reducing or removing emissions
from the company. This includes, for instance, expenditures for the
operation of plants that serve to protect the environment as well as
expenditures for the plant-related measures.

Plants in the vicinity of nature conservation areas

120

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

Goals and Measures
The following goals refer essentially to the Volkswagen Group and are based on our future program TOGETHER – Strategy 2025. Besides
the Group-wide sustainability management, the goals will be categorized in accordance with the dimensions of strategy and coordination, economy, people and the environment. In addition the important brands and companies of the Volkswagen Group have formulated
their own detailed sustainability goals in coordination with the Group goals. These can be found in the respective publications that are
linked in the headings “Brands” and “Regions.”

STRATEGY & COORDINATION

BUSINESS

121

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

122

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

PEOPLE

123

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

ENVIRONMENT

124

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

125

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures Goals and Measures

126

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures About This Report

About This Report
GRI G4-22, G4-23

The Volkswagen Group’s Sustainability Report has been published every year since 2011; this year is the second time that the report
has been published exclusively online. In addition to information about the Group’s sustainability activities in the 2016 financial year
(January 1 to December 31, 2016), the report also contains selected information from the 2017 financial year. The editorial content was
finalized on April 12, 2017. The report is available in German and English. We anticipate that the next Group Sustainability Report (for
2017) will be published in the second quarter of 2018.
The Strategy chapter presents the fundamentals of the Group’s strategy for implementing sustainable development across all its brands.
­Primarily, we discuss the Group’s new future program TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, which was presented at the Group’s Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2016 and had been further specified at the Annual Media Conference and Investor Conference 2017 on March 14, 2017.
The Economy, People and Environment chapters set out our management approach in each case, before outlining how the various aspects
of these topics are implemented. The key Group-wide indicators and the overarching corporate sustainability roadmap are described in
the Facts and Figures chapter.
True to the character of a progress report, we aim to focus on the essentials while at the same time communicating a balanced picture of
our activities that takes account of all Group brands and companies. Audi, MAN, Porsche, Scania and ŠKODA publish their own sustainability reports, either annually or at two-year intervals.

FUNDAMENTALS
This report was drawn up in accordance with the fourth generation of
guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) with the aid
of an IT system that, in addition to Group-wide data acquisition and
management, will also be used for stakeholder management within
the Group. In terms of content, important guidance was provided by
the questionnaires and appraisals of sustainability-oriented rating
agencies and RobecoSAM in particular. We also took our lead from
Stakeholder Engagement Standard AA1000.
To identify material topics for the Volkswagen Group resulting from
various global challenges, we drew upon the findings of the Volks­

wagen Group’s Stakeholder Panel which has been in place for many
years now, as well as the results of the latest comprehensive stakeholder surveys conducted by Group companies Audi, MAN, Porsche
and Volkswagen Financial Services.
The resultant materiality matrix (see “Our Approach”) was validated
by the Corporate CSR & Sustainability Steering Group.
The present report takes account not only of the recommendations
of the Stakeholder Panel following the latter’s evaluation of the 2014
Group Sustainability Report (see “Stakeholder Management”).

STANDARDS
The present sustainability report takes account of the G4 reporting
guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in line with
the “Comprehensive” option. At the same time, we set out in our
GRI Content Index available online how we implement the requirements of the United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) and of the
German Sustainability Code (GSC). The statements and references
that appear in the index relate to the 2016 business year (January 1
to December 31, 2016). Selected information were reviewed by
auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. (see “here”). The GRI has confirmed the location of
indicators G4-17 to G4-27 through its Materiality Disclosure Service.

127

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures About This Report

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out in the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which came into
force at the beginning of 2016, aim to advance sustainability and
equality around the world. The 17 SDGs apply universally, and focus
on ending poverty, protecting the planet, and promoting peace and
prosperity for all people. Between now and 2030, a wide spectrum

of actors from government, civil society, academia and the private
sector will work to ensure that the Goals are fully implemented. As a
global corporation, Volkswagen is committed to the SDGs and is actively contributing to the actualization of these global development
goals through its innovative vehicles, intelligent mobility solutions
and wide-ranging activities in support of sustainability. We have
included references to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals at
appropriate places in the online report.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
In Supplementary Information available online, we provide a numbered list of links so that readers can rapidly access documents that
discuss the selected reporting content in more detail. The latest
news on sustainability at the Volkswagen Group can be found on the
Group portal: www.volkswagenag.com/en/sustainability

FRAME OF REFERENCE
The information in this report relates to the Volkswagen Group as
a whole. If any information relates to individual Group brands only,
this is clearly indicated in the copy.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This sustainability report contains forward-looking statements on
the business development of the Volkswagen Group. These statements are based on assumptions relating to the development of
the economic and legal environment in individual countries and
economic regions, and in particular for the automotive industry,
which we have made on the basis of the information available to us
and which we consider to be realistic at the time of going to press.
The estimates given entail a degree of risk, and actual developments
may differ from those forecast. Any changes in significant param-

eters relating to our key sales markets, or any significant shifts in
exchange rates relevant to the Volkswagen Group, will have a corresponding effect on the development of our business. In addition,
there may be departures from our expected business development
if the assessments of the factors influencing sustainable value
enhancement, as well as risks and opportunities, presented in this
sustainability report develop in a way other than we are currently
expecting, or if additional risks and opportunities or other factors
emerge that affect the development of our business.

128

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT

PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German
version of the Sustainability Report of the Volkswagen AG and
issued an independent assurance report, authoritative in German
language, which has been translated as follows:

Independent Practitioner’s
Limited Assurance Report
TO VOLKSWAGEN AG, WOLFSBURG
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement
on the sustainability information marked with
in the online
version of the Sustainability Report* of the Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg (hereafter the “Company”), for the period from January 1st to
December 31st, 2016.

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and
presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for
the selection of the information to be assessed.
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report as well as
the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability
disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore,
the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the
Sustainability Report, which is free of material misstatements due to
intentional or unintentional errors.

AUDIT FIRM’S INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL
We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German
Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für
Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well
as the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors
in Germany; IDW”): Requirements to quality control for audit firms
(“Entwurf eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 „Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis“ (IdW
EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system

of quality control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability
information marked with
in the Sustainability Report based on
our work performed.
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on
external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the
Sustainability Report.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan
and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance
whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to
believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the
Sustainability Report has not been prepared, in all material respects,
in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for
a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less
assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.
The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement.
This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements
of the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report with regard to the GRI-Criteria.
Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the
following procedures:
§§ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability
organization and of stakeholder engagement
§§ Inspection of relevant documents and inquiries of personnel
regarding the further development of the materiality process and
the preparation of the materiality matrix as well as the underlying
internal control system

129

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Facts and Figures INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT

§§ Assessment of selected management approaches according to the
guidelines of the GRI G4 in compliance with Disclosure Management Approach a) to c)):
§§ Management of the environmental impacts of the production
§§ Sustainability strategy
§§ HR management
§§ Management of social responsibility
§§ Inspection of relevant documents and inquiries of personnel
regarding the data collection and consolidation of the Environmental Performance Indicators of the production as well as the
underlying internal control system
§§ Conduction of site and brand visits in order to assess the data collection and consolidation processes as well as the internal control
activities regarding the Environmental Performance Indicators of
the production:
§§ Brand visit SEAT (Martorell, Spain);
§§ Site visit plant FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co. Ltd.
­(Changchun, China);

EMPHASIS OF MATTER – RECOMMENDATIONS
Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following
recommendations for the further development of the Company’s
sustainability management and sustainability reporting:
§§ Inclusion of the conducted distinct prioritization of the material
aspects within the presentation of the materiality process in the
Sustainability Report
§§ Focusing on the standardization and formalization of group-wide
consistent processes and controls for the data collection on both
site and group level, including the appropriate monitoring of the
processes on group level

RESTRICTION ON USE AND DISTRIBUTION
We issue this Report on the basis of the engagement agreed with
the Volkswagen AG. The review has been performed for purposes of
the Volkswagen AG and is solely intended to inform the Volkswagen
AG about the results of the review. The Report is not intended for
any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not
assume any responsibility towards third parties.

§§ Site visit plant Emden;

Hanover, 8th May 2017

§§ Site visit component plant Kassel

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

§§ Inspection of the aggregation of selected HR KPIs and scope 3
GHG emissions on group level
§§ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information in the
Sustainability Report

Frank Hübner

Michael Conrad

§§ Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the
group management report 2016 of Volkswagen AG

Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor)

§§ Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Sustainability Report regarding the sustainability
performance

* The Sustainability Report is available on the webpage of the Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft:
www.sustainabilityreport2016.volkswagenag.com. The entity is responsible for their website.
Therefore, we do not accept responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
­reported subject matter information or criteria since they were initially presented on the
website.

CONCLUSION
Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to
our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information marked with
in the Sustainability Report of the Company
for the period January 1st to December 31st 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria.

130

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands VOLKSWAGEN PKW

Brands
Bringing the Future to
Series Production
The TRANSFORM 2025+ strategy is a comprehensive redefinition
of the Volkswagen brand. The new strategy focuses on clearer brand
positioning across the various regions and segments, backed by
significant improvements in efficiency and productivity. At the same
time, the brand is investing in electric mobility and connectivity. The
“pact for the future” will make the Volkswagen brand more competitive, getting it into shape for the future. It lays the foundation for
the company’s transformation from an automotive manufacturer
into a successful mobility services provider. In 2016, the I.D. concept
vehicle and the BUDD-e both captured the world’s attention. Both
concepts are based on the Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB)
platform for electric vehicles. The brand also celebrated the Golf GTi’s
40th birthday.

VW Tiguan 2.0 TDI SCR 4Motion BMT – fuel consumption in l/100 km:
urban 6.8–6.5 / extra-urban 5.2–5.0 / combined 5.7–5.6; CO2 emissions
in g/km: 149–147 (combined); CO2 efficiency class: B

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

The Volkswagen brand – transforming from pure
automaker into a mobility services provider fit for the
digital and e-mobility age
Think Blue. Factory.
The Volkswagen brand has taken a significant step toward environmentally sustainable production. Manufacturing of vehicles and components
at its production facilities around the world is 25% more environmentally
friendly today than it was five years ago. This means that the brand has hit
the ambitious sustainability target it set for itself three years earlier than
planned.
Volkswagen’s “Think Blue. Factory” environmental program was the first of
its kind in the world of auto manufacturing. And the reduction in environmental impact – the exact figure
is 29.2% – is based on the average value of the Volkswagen brand’s five agreed environmental indicators.
Between 2010 and the end of 2016, energy consumption was cut by 23.5%, while CO2 emissions were
reduced by 28.6%. The volume of waste for disposal was slashed by an impressive 58.6%; water and solvent
consumption had already been reduced by 27.5% and 7.6% respectively. The indicators are measured per
unit of production (finished vehicle or component).

g

131

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands VOLKSWAGEN PKW

All our plants systematically share the secrets of their success with
each other and adopt their peers’ best practices. Thanks to this, some
2,500 of 5,000 proposed improvement measures have already been
actioned. And more than 1,000 employees have been appointed as
Think Blue. Factory ambassadors at our sites and production shops
around the world.

Volkswagen I. D. Concept Car
Think New! With this guiding principle and a visionary electric vehicle,
Volkswagen offered fascinating prospects for the mobility of the
future at the Paris International Motor Show (October 1–16). The
world premiere of the I. D. was the focal point of the company’s presentation. The zero-emission vehicle is due to go into production
as early as 2020; it will kick off a new generation of innovative electric vehicles that are all based on a new vehicle architecture. The
I.D. represents a new generation of electric vehicles and heralds a
new automotive age: electric, connected and autonomous.
As the first Volkswagen to be based on the new Modular Electrification Toolkit (MEB), the I. D. will be positioned as a compact, all-electric
model that extends the Volkswagen range of production vehicles,
alongside the bestselling Polo, Golf, Tiguan and Passat. Powered by
a 125 kW/170 hp electric motor, the I. D. has a range of up to 600 km
and will be priced at the same level as a Golf with comparable performance. The I.D. will become synonymous with the “Zero Emissions”
concept.

Dresden – Role Model for Sustainable Urban Mobility
Dresden is becoming a model city for electric mobility, digitalization
and innovative fleet management (including carsharing). The regional
capital is planning to make its roads cleaner, quieter, safer and more
convenient. Highly automated connected driving systems, plus
parking solutions, software-driven mobility services, innovative traffic
management and air quality management are additional cornerstones of the partnership. As part of this joint venture, Volkswagen’s
“Transparent Factory” exhibition space will be gradually expanded
to become a “Center of Future Mobility”.
Professor Siegfried Fiebig, spokesperson for the Board of Volkswagen
Sachsen, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Dresden’s
Lord Mayor Dirk Hilbert at the Transparent Factory in Dresden.
The partners have jointly identified four main areas of cooperation.
Inspired by the idea of becoming the Center of Future Mobility, the
city will implement the following core projects:
§§ Smart City Dresden 2025+ (pilot projects, demonstrations of future
mobility in Saxony’s state capital)
§§ Creation of a Joint Research Lab, (for joint R&D projects between
Volkswagen and the city’s research institutions such as the Technical
University of Dresden)
§§ Advanced Mobility Academy (training up a new generation of
specialists in research, development, production and management
in the e-mobility sector)
§§ Creation of a business incubator in the Transparent Factory (acting
as an accelerator for startups developing innovative software solutions for future mobility)

132

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands VOLKSWAGEN PKW

OTHER SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS
Volunteering is a badge of honor at Volkswagen.
Volkswagen’s strategic initiative “Volkswagen pro Ehrenamt” is the umbrella program for volunteering activities, providing targeted
support for social engagement opportunities. Since 2007, a specialist office embedded in the company’s HR management function
has matched over 2,800 volunteers with suitable projects through a volunteer exchange. Around Germany, some 25,000 employees
are now involved in associations, organizations and charities alongside their work. Volkswagen pro Ehrenamt recognizes their commitment, providing support and additional backing. By highlighting positive role models, the company also encourages other employees
to engage in voluntary activities.
Our employees’ commitment to these causes not only benefits other people, initiatives and facilities, but also strengthens their own
key skills, especially their specialist and social skills, as well as their ability to work in a close-knit team. Thus the program dovetails
with Volkswagen’s own personal and professional development initiatives.
Employees who wish to tackle new challenges once their active careers with Volkswagen have come to an end are supported by our
in-house Senior Expert Scheme (KiSEE). This program gives them the opportunity to use their expertise at regional or global level,
either as experienced experts within the company, or as volunteer supporters in outside organizations. In 2016, more than 280 senior
experts took part in projects of their choosing, ensuring that their vast pool of expert knowledge was put to good use, and encouraging the sharing of valuable expertise between old and new generations.

AWARDS

NEXT GREEN CAR

ECO-CAR ASSESSMENT PROGRAMME

UK-based company Next Green Car Ltd. presents
annual awards for the greenest new cars in
10 categories, based on the vehicles’ environmental impact throughout their life cycles.

The VW Golf TSI became the first vehicle
ever to win the Platinum Medal, the
highest possible rating in the China Eco-Car
Assessment Programme (C-ECAP).
The program assesses vehicles against six
criteria, including energy efficiency and
recycling quotient.

„BEST OF CES“-AWARD

AAA GREEN CAR GUIDE

The editorial team of Engadget, one of the
leading U.S. online technology magazines, recognized the BUDD-e in the Best Innovation category
in this year’s “Best of CES” awards.

The American Automobile Association publishes
the AAA Green Car Guide, an annual assessment
of the greenest cars on the U.S. market. In 2016,
the VW e-Golf was awarded the title of “Best in
Class” in the compact car class.

133

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Audi

Cars made with Success
and Passion
The Audi group is one of the most successful manufacturers of
premium automobiles, supercars and sporty motorcycles. In the 2016
fiscal year, the Audi Group delivered a total of 2,088,187 vehicles.
This figure included 1,867,738 Audi core brand models, representing
a 3.6% increase in deliveries to customers. The Lamborghini
brand supplied 3,457 vehicles to customers, and Ducati supplied
55,451 motorcycles. The Audi Group increased its sales revenue by
1.5% in 2016, to €59,317 million. Operating profit reached €3,052
million, with an operating return on sales of 5.1%.

Audi A3 Sportback g-tron – CNG consumption in kg/100 km: 3.6–3.3;
combined fuel consumption in l/100 km: 5.5–5.1; combined CO2 emissions
in g/km (CNG): 98-89; combined CO2 emissions in g/km: 128–117

“VORSPRUNG DURCH TECHNIK” ALSO APPLIES TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
For Audi, corporate responsibility means taking account of economic, ecological and social factors in all decision-­
making, with the aim of securing a long-term competitive edge. In 2016, with our Strategy 2025 we focused on three
major trends: Digitalization, Sustainability and Urbanization. This strategy is Audi’s roadmap for the future. We are
­pursuing the mission of increasing the sustainability of our vehicles and services along the entire value chain. In addi­
tion to our commitment to new drive technologies, we are also investing in carbon-neutral fuels – Audi e-fuels. We
will continue to cut our production’s environmental footprint, while working on material cycles that leave no room for
waste. And our demand for sustainability will feed into our supply chain. We have defined specific targets for each of
these issues in Strategy 2025.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“Spend 30 minutes for 400 km –
fast and simple battery charging”

134

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Audi

Audi e-tron quattro concept
(concept car 2015)

Key technology for an electric mobility breakthrough
Fast and simple battery charging – including charging on the go – is a key
requirement for achieving a breakthrough in electric mobility. With its partners
in the Charging Interface Initiative (CharIN) e.V., Audi is supporting common
technical standards in the form of the Combined Charging System (CCS). The
Combined Charging System (CCS) makes it possible to charge electric cars
with alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC) using a standardized
charging interface known as the Combo plug. This technology is already fitted
on the electrically powered Audi e-tron quattro concept car, which is capable
of traveling more than 400 km on a 30-minute charge. That increases to over
500 km if the battery is charged to full capacity.

Piloted Driving is Safer Driving
Around 90% of all accidents are due to human error. Audi already offers an extensive range of driver assistance systems to help individuals drive more safely
and efficiently. In the new Audi A4, for example, intelligent driver assistance
systems keep drivers safe when turning across traffic at intersections, help with
evasive maneuvers in potential accident situations, warn of cross-traffic when
reversing, provide parking assistance and ensure that occupants do not overlook approaching traffic when exiting from the vehicle. In the near future, Audi
will also implement highly automated driving technologies. This will mean that
in certain situations, the car will – for the first time – be able to take full control
of the driving process. Audi refers to this as “piloted driving”. The next generation of the Audi A8 will feature piloted driving in stop-go traffic on motorways
at speeds of up to 60 km/h. Audi has further expanded its expertise in the
development of piloted driving with the “Digital Motorway Test Bed” initiative.
The premium carmaker is testing new technologies for piloted driving and
car-to-x communication, as well as safety and usability features, in real-world
traffic conditions on the A9 motorway between Nuremberg and Munich. The
Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) communication project connects cars to smart
traffic signs that can update to indicate speed limits, traffic jams or road blocks.

Audi e-tron quattro concept (concept
car 2015)

Audi e-tron quattro concept: sporty, efficient, practical
With the Audi e-tron quattro concept, Audi is demonstrating how far its
electrification strategy has already advanced. Three electric motors with a
combined output of up to 370 kW provide quattro four-wheel drive and electric
torque vectoring, which distributes the drive power between the rear wheels
as required. At a 150 kW DC fast charging station, it only takes around 50
minutes to charge the battery for a total range of more than 500 kilometers.
But the concept model is also equipped with Audi Wireless Charging (AWC), an
alternative approach that uses inductive (contactless) charging. This charging
method could not be more convenient – for example, maneuvering the Audi
e-tron quattro concept into the correct position over the charging pad can be
left to the piloted parking system. And provided the sun is shining, the large
solar roof supplies extra charging power. At speeds of 80 km/h and more, electrically controlled aerodynamic aids on the hood, sides and rear of the vehicle
improve airflow by directing air through and around the vehicle as required.
Vertical spoilers on the side panels and the fully enclosed floor pan with newly
designed microstructures make a further contribution to reduced drag.

135

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Audi

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Audi listens to the opinions and suggestions of relevant stakeholders
as a guide for the ongoing development of the company’s business
strategy. This dialog provides Audi with key pointers for long-term
sustainability projects. A series of smaller scale opportunities for
dialog will allow us to engage in greater depth with stakeholders in
the future.
The third Audi Stakeholder Forum took place in Brussels last year.
Politicians, business representatives and academics discussed the
opportunities and challenges of e-mobility. These included prioritizing the expansion of the charging infrastructure, as well as
finding suitable business models for the future. The first Audi Dealer
Dialog 2016 in Ingolstadt also addressed the topic of sustainability.
Audi discussed sustainability projects and initiatives with senior
managers and dealership advisors. Abroad, Audi México held its
first Stakeholder Dialog in Puebla. The discussion focused on regional engagement and interaction between the company and its local
stakeholders.

Responsibility Perspective
The “Responsibility Perspective” series of lectures offers Audi em­
ployees the opportunity to share ideas on the subject of sustainability
with NGO representatives, academics and politicians. Events organized in 2016 focused on issues of central relevance to Audi’s longterm viability: future mobility, responsible corporate management,
digitalization and the transformation of the working environment.
Professor Stefan Schaltegger, Head of the Center for Sustainability
Management at Leuphana University in Lüneburg was among the
keynote speakers invited. He talked about sustainable and ethical
business practices in corporations. Professor Michael Bargende,
Head of the Institute for Internal Combustion Engines and Auto­
motive Engineering (IVK) at the University of Stuttgart, spoke
about powertrains of the future. His discussion focused on the
question “Is e-tron the diesel killer?”

AWARDS

INDUSTRIAL INCLUSION AWARD 2016
AUDI AG has been presented with the Industrial Inclusion Award 2016
in the “Group” category, for its exemplary integration of people with
physical disabilities. The award, which is sponsored by the Federal
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, is presented by an independent
expert jury comprising representatives of industry, politics and organizations of disabled people. Audi employs people with physical disabilities
for as long as possible within its established teams, including production.
A joint study conducted by Audi and the University of St. Gallen has
documented the success of this integration process.

136

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Seat

Technology
to enjoy
SEAT is the only company that designs, develops, manufactures
and markets cars in Spain. A member of the Volkswagen Group, the
multi­national has its headquarters in Martorell (Barcelona), exports
81% of its vehicles, and is present in over 80 countries through a
network of 1,700 dealerships. In 2016, SEAT generated an operating
profit of €143 million – the highest in the history of the brand –
and achieved worldwide sales of nearly 410,000 vehicles.
SEAT Group employs more than 14,500 professionals at its three
production facilities in Barcelona, El Prat de Llobregat and Martorell,
where it manufactures the highly successful Ibiza and Leon. The
company also produces the Ateca and Toledo in the Czech Republic,
the Alhambra in Portugal and the Mii in Slovakia.
The multinational has a Technical Centre, which acts as a knowledge
hub bringing together 1,000 engineers who are focused on developing
innovations for Spain’s largest industrial investor in R&D. SEAT already features the latest connectivity technology in its vehicle range
and is currently engaged in a global digitalization process that will
pave the way to the mobility of the future.

SEAT Ibiza (SC) 1.0-1.8 MPI/TSI/Eco (TSI/TDI
Start&Stop) (Ecomotive) – fuel consumption in l/100
km: urban 7.8-4.1 / extra-urban 5.3-3.3 / combined
6.2-3.6; CO2 emissions in g/km: 145-93 (combined);
CO2 efficiency class: D-A

137

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Seat

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

SEAT al Sol
A sunny outlook! The ambitious SEAT al SOL (“SEAT in the Sun”)
project, launched back in 2010, has now completed all installations
planned for SEAT facilities and is fully operational. The commissioning
of the final two plants in the project has added a total of 53,000 solar
panels, which are installed on the roofs of the workshops and above
the temporary vehicle storage areas. Covering an area of 276,000 m2,
equivalent to 40 football fields, the solar plant at the Martorell facility
is now the largest in the automotive industry worldwide. All together,
the solar plants – rated at nearly 11 MW of nominal power and
12 MW of peak power – can generate up to 17 million kWh per year.
This represents 17% of the annual energy required to manufacture
the new SEAT Leon, with zero environmental impact. During 2016, the
energy produced by SEAT al Sol reached 17.1 million kWh.

Mega truck
The SEAT mega truck has been operating since April 2016. A long
truck (more than 25m in length), the mega truck has a maximal
load capacity of 60 t, which will save 22% of transportation costs and
reduce annual CO2 emissions to just 300 t.

Social Responsibility Projects
During 2016, SEAT further expanded its social responsibility activities,
focusing on three areas in particular:
§§ Donations – of cars and parts for educational purposes to high
schools, Fundació El Trampolí, the Talita Foundation, the Fight
AIDS Foundation, the Spanish Red Cross and the San Juan de Dios
Foundation.
§§ Solidarity campaigns among employees – including Against
Breast Cancer and Christmas campaigns.
§§ Social sponsorships – of Deutsche Schule, the “SOMOS UNO”
solidarity event and Gala SIDA 2016

138

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Seat

AWARDS

ISO 14006 – ECODESIGN CERTIFICATION.

TOP EMPLOYER 2016

SEAT has been certified under the ISO 14006
Ecodesign standard. The company is the first enterprise
in Spain’s automotive sector to be certified under
this standard.

In 2016, SEAT received the Top Employer Award
for the second time in a row, after making
a 35% improvement in the official rankings.

139

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Škoda

The Brand
from Central Europe
With over 120 years of vehicle manufacturing experience, ŠKODA
AUTO is the largest industrial company in the Czech Republic and
the third oldest car manufacturer in the world. In 1991, ŠKODA AUTO
was the fourth brand to be incorporated into the Volkswagen Group,
when it was positioned as the Group’s entry-level brand. Since then,
production has increased more than six-fold. Today, ŠKODA AUTO
operates three production plants in the Czech Republic and one in
India. ŠKODA vehicles are also produced in China, Russia, the Slovak
Republic, Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
ŠKODA AUTO currently generates about 8% of the Czech Republic’s
total exports, supplying vehicles to over 100 countries on five con­
tinents. Its product portfolio comprises models in all categories.
The seven-model series meet virtually all customer needs. Each
model has its own unique positioning and interprets the ŠKODA
brand pledge differently for each of its target groups and market
segments, from the ŠKODA CITIGO city car and the small ŠKODA
FABIA to the compact ŠKODA RAPID and the ŠKODA OCTAVIA in the
family compact class; from the ŠKODA YETI off-roader through to
the ŠKODA SUPERB at the high end of the model range, as well as
the brand’s new large SUV, the ŠKODA KODIAQ, first presented to
the public in September 2016.
2016 marked the fifth year of the ŠKODA AUTO growth strategy,
with 1,126,477 cars sold worldwide. ŠKODA’s European market
share remained above 4%, while China maintained its position as
the brand’s strongest market with 317,088 cars sold – an increase
of 12.6% over 2015.
In recent years, ŠKODA AUTO has regularly featured at the top of the
“Czech 100 Best” rankings in the “Most Important Company” and
“Most Admired Company” categories. ŠKODA AUTO employs more
than 28,600 people, and is the only company in the Czech Republic
to run its own vocational school and university.

Skoda Octavia GreenLine saloon (1.6 TDI) – fuel consumption in l/100 km:
urban 3.9 / extra-urban 3.2 / combined 3.5; CO2 emissions in g/km: 90
(combined); CO2 efficiency class: A+

The company has won the “Employer of the Year” award on numerous
occasions.
Sustainability is key to the success of ŠKODA AUTO in facing present
and future challenges. For ŠKODA AUTO, sustainability involves the
creation and sharing of values between the company and all stakeholders, internal and external. The company creates shared values
through its CSR activities and GreenFuture environmental strategy,
but also by establishing and adhering to principles of ethical and
transparent conduct.

140

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Škoda

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

Millions Donated to Good Causes
In 2016, ŠKODA employees raised more than two million Czech koruna for NGO projects that were selected by the employees themselves.
The company’s fund-matching donation doubled this figure, bringing
it to four million koruna. In line with ŠKODA’s CSR priorities, most of
the money went into supporting charitable projects for children, education, barrier-free access for the disabled, and road safety. A certain
amount of money was donated to a children’s home in Aurangabad,
India, as part of ŠKODA AUTO’s international aid initiative.

Teribear Charity Runs
In 2016, ŠKODA sponsored the Tereza Maxová Children’s Foundation’s
“Teribear charity runs”. Every kilometer in the 10-day “Teribear moves
Prague” event and the one-day “Teribear moves Mladá Boleslav” event
raised money for disadvantaged children. Runners in the Prague event
ran day and night, with event partners donating various amounts in
Czech koruna per kilometer for projects to support children in need. A
total of 9,456 people took part, covering a distance of 159,348.75 kilo­
meters overall and raising more than 8 million koruna. The Mladá
Boleslav run on behalf of Nymburk Children’s Home involved a large
number of ŠKODA employees, as well as members of the general public. During the one-day event, more than 1,687 people covered a total
distance of 14,426.4 km, raising almost 300,000 koruna.

Precision and Efficiency
At the main plant in Mladá Boleslav, preparations for the new
state-of-the art PXL II servo press line started in 2015 and continued
throughout 2016; the total investment amounted to €86.4 million.
The new line is the most modern of its kind in Central Europe. For the
first time, it is now possible for ŠKODA AUTO to press large aluminium
car body parts for reduced-weight vehicles that are more energyefficient. The new press goes into full operation in 2017. A total of
140 new jobs will be created in connection with this investment.

141

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Škoda

OTHER PROJECTS
Half a Million Trees for the Czech Republic
As part of ŠKODA’s long-term “A tree for every car sold in the Czech Republic” project, the company planted more than 640,000 trees in
some 50 locations between 2007 and the end of 2016. Trees are planted for the benefit of towns and communities throughout the Czech
Republic. The project focuses in particular on the regions in which ŠKODA has production facilities. From the start, employees at ŠKODA
production sites have been actively involved in implementing the campaign. They assist in the search for suitable locations, as well as
with the actual planting. From the outset, one of the initiative’s key objectives was to strengthen the bonds between employees and the
areas in which they live and work by encouraging active involvement.
ŠKODA Academy
The ŠKODA Academy comprises three main parts – an adult training program, a vocational school, and an employee potential assessment center. The adult training program is designed to foster the personal development of ŠKODA AUTO employees, as well as broaden
and improve their technical and interdisciplinary skills. 31,948 participants took part in off-the-job adult training courses in 2016, and
61,291 participated in eLearning courses. ŠKODA AUTO’s vocational students regularly rank among the best in national and international
competitions. Students are invited to enhance their skills in the so-called Apprentice Car project, in which they are asked to build their
own prototype car. Under the guidance of professional ŠKODA designers, the project was launched in 2013. In 2016, the students’ teamwork resulted in a car named ATERO, based on a ŠKODA RAPID and equipped with a variety of amazing special features. The vocational
school offered 14 courses in IT mechatronics, logistics, auto mechanics, electrical engineering and tooling, including a special course for
disabled apprentices. The courses were attended by 911 full-time students.
Z. E. B. R. A. Idea Management
ŠKODA AUTO has implemented the so-called Z. E. B. R. A. idea management program, a motivational program dedicated to supporting
employee activities that aim to introduce improvements or innovative cost-saving measures. Since the program was launched in 2010,
the number of proposals submitted has increased from 11,620 to around 26,000 in 2016, generating total savings of 302.4 million
koruna. Z. E. B. R. A. has thus become a powerful tool under the management of ŠKODA’s “Suggestions Centre”.
Healthcare – Focus on Prevention
The ŠKODA Polyclinic, located at the main plant in Mladá Boleslav, provides outpatient medical care for both employees and the
general public. The range of care provided includes general medicine, cardiology, dentistry, dermatology, ENT, gynecology, internal
medicine, neurology, ophthalmology, orthopedics, pulmonology, sonography, surgery, urology and X-ray diagnostics.
ŠKODA employees can participate in the prevention programs free of charge. These include individual and group training sessions
aimed at preventing health problems resulting from workplace or lifestyle factors. In the reporting year, a number of ergonomic
interventions were implemented. The company also continued to carry out ergonomic risk assessments using the EAWS (Ergonomic
Assessment Worksheet) to analyze and evaluate risks caused by physical stress in the manufacturing process. The EAWS can be used
to perform a comprehensive ergonomic assessment of work tasks that takes account of both the intensity and duration of any form of
stress. A new project for the psychological assessment of workplaces was introduced, providing an important perspective for improved workplace monitoring.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
As a brand, ŠKODA always aims to maintain close contact with its
main stakeholders such as employees, communities, customers,
governmental and other administrative bodies, suppliers, academics,
NGOs, and professional organizations. ŠKODA identifies relevant
needs and requirements through personal discussions, meetings,
and participation in public forums, seminars and university lectures.

So far, ŠKODA has always used information from the Volkswagen
Group’s stakeholder survey and materiality matrix. In 2016, ŠKODA
AUTO launched its own stakeholder assessment process in cooperation with PriceWaterhouseCoopers. After reaching major milestones
by the end of 2016, the process will be continued in 2017.

142

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Škoda

AWARDS

CZECH 100 BEST 2016

ZPŠ

ŠKODA AUTO has been voted the country’s best company by “Czech 100 Best” for the 16th consecutive year
and has now won the award more times than
any other company. Results are based on the votes of
nearly 20,000 selected representatives from business
and politics. The award is presented by the pan-European company for culture, education and scientific
cooperation, COMENIUS.

In 2016, Škoda Health Insurance (ZPŠ) topped
the “ZP health index” compiled by the
­“Platform of health insurance policyholders
of the Czech Republic”. According to the index,
ZPŠ is in the best financial shape, having
improved its result since last year by finishing
among the “healthiest” insurance companies
in the Czech Republic. It was clearly the quality
management system and totally professional
work of all our employees that helped ZPŠ
gain this prestigious independent recognition.
Škoda Health Insurance has been using the
system for more than 10 years, earning a quality ­certificate in compliance with the ISO 9001
standard. ZPŠ retained the certificate following
the ­annual audit in September 2016.

143

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Bentley

Leading Manufacturer
of Luxury Vehicles
Bentley Motors is the most sought-after luxury car brand in the
world. The company’s headquarters in Crewe, United Kingdom, is
home to all its operations including design, R&D, engineering and
production of the company’s four model lines: Continental, Flying
Spur, Bentayga and Mulsanne. The combination of engineering expertise and cutting-edge technology with fine craftsmanship, using
skills handed down over generations, is unique to UK luxury car
brands such as Bentley, and is an example of high-value British manufacturing at its best. The company, part of the Volkswagen Group
since 1998, currently employs around 4,000 people in Crewe. Bentley
delivered 11,023 cars in 2016, the company’s fourth consecutive year
above 10,000 cars.
Bentley Bentayga Diesel – fuel consumption in l/100 km: 7.9 (combined);
CO2 emissions in g/km: 210 (combined); CO2efficiency class: B

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

New R & D Center opens
with 400+ engineers

Crewe Engineering and Design UTC Opens
University Technical Colleges (UTCs) provide an exciting educational offering, backed by business
partners and a university. Bentley has been involved in all aspects of setting up the school, which
opened in 2016. The UTC integrates technical, practical and academic learning in an environment
where students can thrive and develop skills needed by industry, thereby strengthening their
career opportunities. Bentley helps introduce real-world scenarios into the UTC curriculum, such
as the Bentley Seat Challenge. This initiative saw students visit the factory and receive hands-on
training, followed by a brief from engineers to create a design for a future Bentley seat.

144

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Bentley

Trainee Volunteering
As part of the trainee programs at Bentley, all apprentices, industrial placement students and
graduates are asked to take part in charity fundraising and volunteering projects within the local
community. Since 2016, Bentley trainees have been supporting the Prince’s Trust, a charity for
young people that helps deliver the TEAM program in Crewe. Trainees have also been delivering
digital skills sessions for the elderly, giving advice on how to use technology such as tablets and
laptops to encourage digital inclusion.

Bentley establishes Rotary volunteering club
Bentley has recently established a company-wide volunteering club in conjunction with the local
branch of Rotary International. The Rotary Club of Bentley Cheshire organizes weekly meetings
where members can socialize and plan community projects. In their first year, Bentley Rotarians
have already dedicated over 1,000 hours to community service, including a project to renovate a
garden for cancer patients at a local hospital.

AUSZEICHNUNGEN

TOP EMPLOYER

PRINCESS ROYAL TRAINING AWARD

INVESTORS IN PEOPLE SILVER

CARBON TRUST TRIPLE STANDARD

EXCELLENCE IN INDUSTRY –
(PRIDE OF CREWE AWARDS)

145

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Lamborghini

Visionary,
Cutting Edge, Pure
The first Lamborghini ever made was built in the Sant’Agata Bolognese plant in Northern Italy back in 1963. The same factory has
been manufacturing these legendary supercars ever since. A part of
Volkswagen AG since 1998, Lamborghini continues to enjoy worldwide acclaim as a manufacturer of exclusive, charismatic vehicles. All
Lamborghini cars are developed and produced at this single site in
Sant’Agata Bolognese. In 2016, the company’s 1,415 employees built
3,457 vehicles, generating sales revenue of €906 million.

Lamborghini Huracán RWD coupé – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 17.2 /
extra-urban 8.9 / combined 11.9; CO2 emissions in g/km: 278 (combined);
CO2 efficiency class: G

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

Lamborghini named
“Top Employer Italy 2016”

Tracce Musicali – Partnership with Teatro Comunale Bologna
In accordance with its Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, Automobili Lamborghini supports
cultural initiatives and institutions that aim to enhance the local region’s social development. In
2016, Automobili Lamborghini decided to engage in a partnership with Bologna’s Teatro Comunale.
The Teatro Comunale is the main theater in Bologna, staging performances of opera, music and
ballet. It has also established an opera school to support the development of young artists. Automobili Lamborghini sponsored a production of Giuseppe Verdi’s opera “Attila” at the Teatro
Comunale, and then further strengthened the partnership by organizing “Tracce Musicali”, a CSR
initiative dedicated to students from Emilia-Romagna schools. The initiative aimed to foster a
broader appreciation of musical culture among members of the younger generation by allowing
students to attend rehearsals for the 2017 Symphonic Season free of charge.

146

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Lamborghini

Dual Education System Italy (DESI)
During the reporting year, Lamborghini and Ducati continued to develop the CSR project DESI
(Dual Education System Italy) jointly organized by both companies and launched in 2014. Other
project partners include the Volkswagen Workforce Foundation, the Italian Ministry of Educa­
tion, University and Research, the Education Ministry of the Emilia Romagna Region and two of
Bologna’s Technical High Schools. The DESI dual education program currently supports 45 young
people in their last year at technical high school, and combines classroom-based theory with
practical work experience placements. For the practical training component, Lamborghini and
Ducati have set up modern training centers at their respective plants.

Lamborghini – Biopark and Biomonitoring Project
The biopark, situated in the small Italian municipality of Sant’Agata Bolognese in the city of
­Bologna, includes a 70,000 m2 plantation of 9,000 young common oaks (quercus robur) and a fruit
garden (30 different species on 900 m2). Since 2008, similar projects have been carried out by ­
Audi at many of its production plants around the world. These plantations will be monitored over
the coming years and decades in a project that will provide insights into forest productivity, stocking (forest density) and the ability of forests to store carbon and maintain biodiversity. Special
attractions in the forest include a nature walk featuring native tree species and a wetland area,
where local schoolchildren can learn more about the environment. The forest even features a
­fitness area!
In April 2016, Lamborghini established an apiary in Lamborghini Biopark. The aim is to set up a
biomonitoring program that will track several different pollutants by analyzing honey, wax and the
honey bees themselves.
Bees are excellent environmental indicators, in that they can be used to indirectly monitor the
state of health of the surrounding area. Their natural inclination to explore every corner of a
neighborhood in search of vital resources means that every day, foragers from beehives make millions of withdrawals from various environmental matrices: pollen and nectar from flowers, honeydew (later transformed into honey) from leaves infested by sap-feeding insects, various resins from
buds and twigs (used to produce propolis), and of course water sources.
Lamborghini’s apiary consists of eight hives. During 2016, samples of all the hive matrices (honey,
pollen, wax, and the bees themselves) were taken from three of the eight hives and examined
for local environmental pollution, including heavy metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and
­dioxins, as well as pesticides used in agriculture and urban and private green spaces.
In 2016, the apiary produced 240 kg of honey. The honey was found to be free from all the residues
under research.
The Lamborghini Biopark project is an opportunity for mutually profitable collaboration between
Lamborghini and its host municipality of Sant’Agata Bolognese, because in addition to being a
research site, the oak forest adds value to the regional landscape and environment, and also has
an educational dimension.

147

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Lamborghini

OTHER PROJECTS
Trigeneration Plant
Trigeneration, also known as CCHP, is a system which uses a single fuel to simultaneously produce energy for heating, cooling and electricity.
The trigeneration plant at Lamborghini, for example, uses natural gas. The thermal energy produced by the fuel is used for air conditioning
via the refrigeration cycle of an absorption chiller, which is based on a phase-changing refrigerant combined with an absorbent. The trigener­
ation plant at Automobili Lamborghini has an installed capacity of 1.2 MWh. Electricity is supplied to the plant as a whole via a transformer,
while the thermal energy is delivered via a new hot-water piping network. The original cogeneration plants are used to provide back-up when
there are peaks in demand.
The installed thermal capacity of 1,190 kWh is used to meet demand during the winter months from November to March. In summer
(from April to October), the refrigeration output of approx. 890 kWh is absorbed by the company’s main refrigeration units. This project
has a n
­ umber of different objectives, the most important of which is to reduce CO2 emissions. By operating the system on natural gas,
greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by an estimated 823 t CO2. With a number of minor modifications, it will be possible to convert
the system to run on biogas in the future.
Biogas-Powered District Heating System Reduces Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Automobili Lamborghini is the first Italian automaker to operate its own district heating system. This system pipes hot water to the plant
from a biogas-powered cogeneration plant in Nonantola, approximately 6 kilometers away. The hot water (85°C) is pumped through underground pipes to the plant, where the thermal energy is used for heating. Forecasts indicate that the biogas cogeneration plant, which
has a total capacity of 1 MW, will in future provide Lamborghini with at least 7,200 MWh of thermal energy annually. This will reduce annual
greenhouse emissions by an estimated 1,780 t CO2.

AWARDS

TOP EMPLOYER ITALIA 2016

AEOF CERTIFICATE

In recognition of its excellent workplace environment and outstanding personnel management,
Lamborghini has been certified as a “Top Employer
Italia 2016”. This annual certification is awarded
by the Top Employers Institute.

The Italian customs authority Agenzia delle
Dogane e dei Monopoli has awarded Lamborghini
the status of “Authorized Economic Operator –
Full”, thereby certifying that the company operates
to the highest standards of reliability and security
in its trade with foreign countries.

UNIVERSUM AWARDS 2016 –
STUDENTS CHOOSE MOST ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYERS
The annual Universum employer rankings reveal which employers are
most attractive to students. In an annual survey carried out across
all Italian universities, students are asked to name the companies they
regard as the most appealing. In 2016, Lamborghini was ranked fifth
in the Engineering / IT / Natural Sciences category.

148

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Porsche

Driving in
its Purest Form

Porsche 718 Boxster S – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 10.7–9.5 /
extra-urban 6.5–6.0 / combined 8.1–7.3; CO2 emissions in g/km: 184–167
(combined); CO2 efficiency class: F/E
Porsche 911 Carrera S – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 12.2–10.1 /
extra-urban 6.6–6.4 / combined 8.7–7.7; CO2 emissions in g/km: 199–174
(combined); CO2 efficiency class: F/E

Porsche is a leading manufacturer of exclusive sports cars and the
most profitable carmaker in the world. Porsche sports cars have
always stood for performance, quality and inimitable design. Last
year the company, which has been a Volkswagen Group brand since
2012 and is represented in 129 markets around the world, sold
237,778 vehicles and recorded revenues of €22,318 million. This
means 2016 was the most successful fiscal year in the company’s
history. It was also the sixth year in a row in which the company
achieved record sales revenue, operating result and deliveries.
Porsche’s most important markets are Western Europe, China and
the USA. The company’s headcount also reached record levels in
2016, increasing to 27,612 employees across all sites. These locations are currently being upgraded for future plans. At its main plant
in Zuffenhausen, for example, 2016 has been all about preparing
for the Mission E, Porsche’s first all-electric vehicle, which will soon
roll off the production line at the factory. The investment of over
€1 billion is also creating more than 1,400 new jobs.

Porsche Cayenne S – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 13.0 / extra-­
urban 8.0 / combined 9.8; CO2 emissions in g/km: 229 (combined); CO2
efficiency class: E
Porsche Macan S – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 11.6 / extra-urban
7.6 / combined 9.0; CO2 emissions in g/km: 212 (combined); CO2 efficiency
class: E
Porsche Panamera S – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 12.2 /
extra-urban 7.1 / combined 8.9; CO2 emissions in g/km: 207 (combined);
CO2 efficiency class: E

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“Porsche is investing in a sustainable future
for its main plant in Zuffenhausen,
injecting €1 billion into production of the
first all-electric Porsche Mission E and
creating 1,400 new jobs.”

149

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Porsche

Establishment of Porsche Sustainability Council
In the 2016 fiscal year, Porsche took an important step in its plans to
expand stakeholder dialog by creating the Sustainability Council. Its
five members, all internationally renowned in academic and social
circles, held the Council’s first constituent meeting in November and
met with the Porsche Executive Board for the first time. Professor
Maximilian Gege (co-founder of B. A. U. M., the largest corporate network for sustainable business in Europe), Dr. Sonja Peterson (Scientific
Director of the Institute for the World Economy in Kiel), Professor
Lucia A. Reisch (a member of the German Council for Sustainable
Development), Professor Ortwin Renn (Scientific Director of the
Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies e.V.) and Professor Klaus
Töpfer (former German Federal Minister for the Environment, Nature
Conservation and Nuclear Safety) will advise the company on issues
and challenges arising from relevant ecological and social trends.

20 Years of Environmental Certification at Zuffenhausen
Saving energy, avoiding waste, printing on both sides of the page –
every Porsche employee knows about conserving resources and
contributing to the company’s environmental sustainability. On
May 20, 2016, a team of independent assessors from TÜV carried
out their audit of Porsche’s compliance with environmental standards
in operations and production. In 1996, Porsche was one of the first
companies in the federal state of Baden Württemberg to introduce
an EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) compliant environmental management system at its Zuffenhausen facility. The company
obtained this certification in recognition of the system’s clearly defined
processes, lines of responsibility, and effective implementation.

Refugee Integration Program
In spring 2016, Porsche AG introduced a comprehensive refugee integration program. Ten men and five women aged between 16 and 38
were given the opportunity to qualify for vocational training or direct
entry to a profession by attending a six-month integration program
drawn up by Porsche. The program participants came from Eritrea, Syria,
Afghanistan, Iran and Iraq. The program focuses on teaching German
as well as basic technical skills and cultural awareness. The 13 people
who took part in the first year of the program completed the course
successfully, with outcomes such as going directly into employment,
embarking on a course of vocational training or participating in further
initiatives. A new cohort of 15 refugees joined the ongoing program in
January 2017.

150

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Porsche

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Informing Local Residents about Construction Work
in Zuffenhausen
Stakeholder groups involved: local residents and interested
members of the public.
Form of dialog: letters were sent to residents living in the vicinity
of the main plant in Zuffenhausen inviting them to attend an information event; this event included an explanation of the planned
construction works, a question and answer session and a tour of the
“Central Workshops” construction site.
“targa” Newspaper for Residents
BStakeholder groups involved: local residents living in the vicinity of
the Zuffenhausen, Weissach and Leipzig sites.
Form of dialog: site-specific information was provided to local resi­
dents and interested members of the public about new developments at Porsche such as construction projects, far-reaching company
decisions and social outreach activities. Also, two email addresses –
targa@porsche.de and nachgefragt@porsche.de – were set up so that
interested readers could ask questions and provide feedback.

Customer surveys
Stakeholder groups involved: customers
Form of dialog: the Sales and Marketing department has christened
2015 “Customer Satisfaction Year” with a view to further improving
the quality of customer care worldwide. Under the “Customer Experience Management” initiative, Porsche has implemented hundreds
of measures aimed at ensuring high standards of customer service
throughout the entire customer lifecycle. As part of the initiative, customer satisfaction surveys generate approximately 17,000 responses
every month. This feedback directly reflects customer experience and
feeds into the continuous improvement process.
Identification and Analysis of Key Stakeholder Topics in 2015
The 2015 stakeholder survey on Porsche’s sustainability performance
identified the following topics as particularly relevant (top five, in
descending order of priority): long-term economic stability, long-term
customer relationships, health and safety, fuel consumption/vehicle
emissions, and staff development. These and all other survey findings
are translated directly into a “materiality matrix”, where they are
ranked according to their relevance to stakeholders on the one hand,
and to the company on the other. This materiality analysis is then
used by Porsche to set priorities for its sustainability reporting. In
particular, it underpins the selection and editing of content in the
Sustainability Report itself. At the same time, stakeholders’ opinions
are also taken into account in internal decision-making, for example
in issue prioritization and strategic planning.

AWARDS

VEHICLE AWARDS

SITE AWARDS

U. S. Sales Satisfaction Index published by market
research institute J. D. Power: First place in the overall
brand ranking

J. D. Power “Plant Quality Award”:
Zuffenhausen headquarters takes first place
in the “Europe/Africa” category

EMPLOYER AWARDS

AWARDS FOR SOCIAL PARTNERSHIPS

Automotive Top Career Award 2016: First place
among students on automotive courses

“Vocational Training Award” 2015 from the
German-Philippine Chamber of Commerce and
Industry for the Porsche Training and Recruitment
Center Asia (PTRCA) in Manila

151

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Commercial Vehicles

Economical, Reliable,
Customer-focused
Global challenges are creating an ever-growing raft of problems for
our society and our environment, amid constantly evolving legal
and regulatory requirements. These changes are having a tangible
impact on companies, and their stakeholders expect solutions. At
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, we are tackling these challenges
head-on. We are actively committed to passing on an intact and
healthy living and working environment to future generations, while
at the same time securing a strong future for our own company.
The Volkswagen Group aims to become a world-leading provider
of sustainable mobility. This ambitious goal can only be achieved if
all of its brands work closely together. With our vehicles and services,
we are the Group’s only brand offering tailor-made transport solutions in the light commercial vehicle market. Alongside our vision –
to offer world-leading transport solutions to our customers – we
have a responsibility to help the Group achieve its targets as efficiently and effectively as possible. At the same time, we want to
make addressing the global challenges of urbanization and climate
change our main priorities. These are the two areas in which we add
the most value for our customers, society and the environment.
Sustainability is a top priority at Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles.
The Brand Board of Management meets twice yearly to formulate
a CSR roadmap and decide on focus topics. All departments in the
company, from procurement and human resources to production
and logistics, take part in regular steering committee meetings in
which they set common, binding targets in order to make corporate
responsibility the common decision-making framework for processes and projects.

Caddy Delivery Van – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 7.6–4.7 /
extra-urban 5.3–3.6 / combined 6.2–4.0; CO2 emissions in g/km: 143–106
(combined).
T6 Transporter Delivery Van KR – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban
12.6–6.8 / extra-urban 7.9–4.7 / combined 9–5.4; CO2 emissions in g/km:
222–142 (combined).
Crafter Delivery Van – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 8.8–8.3 /
extra-urban 7.0–6.9 / combined 7.6–7.4; CO2 emissions in g/km: 199–193
(combined).
VW Amarok 3.0l TDI (SCR BMT) – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban
8.6–8.3 / extra-urban 7.3–7.1 / combined 7.8–7.5; CO2 emissions in g/km:
193–184 (combined).

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“New standards in fuel consumption –
Caddy 4 and T6 models use up to 15%
less fuel”
152

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Commercial Vehicles

The New e-Crafter – Highlight of the IAA 2016 Commercial Vehicles Show
§§ World premiere for the first all-electric Crafter
§§ Concept shows solution for zero-emission urban delivery vehicle
nearly ready for series production
§§ No limits on load space
The e-Crafter concept incorporates
the latest developments in battery
technology that allow a freely configurable range up to 400 km, depending
on customer needs and the demands
of the job. This performance makes
the vehicle an intriguing prospect for
many sectors, over and above urban
transport.

§§ Carries up to 1.7 tons
§§ Range of over 200 km
§§ First vehicles hit the roads in 2017
Electric power has not altered the character of the new Crafter. The concept vehicle still offers
attractive yet robust internal features, including the largest possible payload capacity, an ideal
11.3 m3 load space and a maximum load height of 1,961 millimeters. A generous 1,380 mm payload width between the wheel arches and a maximum load space length of 4,855 mm round
off the vehicle – with no change to package dimensions.
The 100 kW electric drive accelerates the road-ready concept (with a dependable gross weight of
4.25 t) up to the maximum permitted speed of 80 km/h. The vehicle is equally at home on delivery
routes along urban highways as it is driving across country. With maximum torque of 290 Nm,
available almost instantaneously, real-world driving situations can easily be handled even when
carrying a full load weighing 1,709 kg.

Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles plant
in Września

Highly Efficient Environmental Solutions at New Crafter Plant in Września
The new Crafter plant in Września, approximately 50 km from Poznań, was officially opened in
October 2016. The design and construction of the new plant met the most demanding environmental standards right from the start, in line with the “Think Blue. Factory.” strategy. From an environmental protection perspective, one of the highlights here is the paintshop, which is exceptionally resource-efficient and consumes remarkably little energy, water or materials. Paint is applied
automatically, by 36 robots. Efficient, high-speed rotating atomizers and color changers use much
less paint than conventional systems. In the paint booths, process air is scrubbed using a dry separation system, reducing energy consumption in the booth by up to 60%. No water or chemicals are
required, and process air volumes are reduced as well. A new system for energy-optimized spray
booth air conditioning is also in operation.
The body dryers are equipped with energy-saving heat recovery technology. The body shop uses the
latest, most energy-efficient robots and state-of-the-art laser technology that is substantially more
efficient. The factory buildings and infrastructure were also built in accordance with Volkswagen’s
strict environmental criteria. Ventilation technology and energy media supply meet high standards
of efficiency, while the lighting system makes use of natural daylight and LED technology. Water
savings were also made in assembly, where the sprinkler booths used to check that vehicles are
watertight achieve savings of up to 75% compared to traditional processes. In December 2016, the
plant was awarded the Golden Certificate of the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB). The
plant in Września is the only automotive production center in the world to be honored with this
distinction, as well as the first and the only building in Poland.

153

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Commercial Vehicles

Working Hard for People with Disabilities:
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles supports Hanover Special Olympics
In June 2016, Hanover, the state capital of Lower Saxony, played host to the Special Olympics,
a national sporting event for people with mental disabilities. Some 4,800 athletes competed
in 18 disciplines over the week-long event. As the official vehicle supplier, Volkswagen Commercial
Vehicles provided 30 vehicles to transport participants, organizers and sporting equipment
between the competition venues. 15 apprentices and students on placement at Volkswagen
Commercial Vehicles acted as volunteer team assistants in the soccer competitions, supporting
the athletes while they competed.
Apprentices and students on placement at Volkswagen Commercial
Vehicles supported the soccer teams
as volunteers

OTHER SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS
Golden Bulli 2016
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles launched its new “Golden Camper” prize in 2016, recognizing craft workshops that are committed to
social responsibility. The prize is open to all workshops licensed under the German Crafts and Trade Code. A specialist panel comprising
experts from the industry press, associations and businesses selects the winner. The first prize was presented to Roland Ketterer GmbH,
from Donaueschingen-Pfohren in the federal state of Baden-Württemberg. Chair of the Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Brand Board of
Management Dr. Eckhard Stolz handed over the prize at a ceremony held on December 13, 2016. Roland Ketterer, owner of the plumbing firm that bears his name, and his employees came up with the idea and raised funds for the construction of a specialist school for
drinking water and solar energy expertise in the Tanzanian town of Chala, home to some 10,000 people. In recognition of its outstanding
efforts, the company, which employs 12 people, was rewarded with a versatile, new Transporter panel van.
Steadily Reducing CO2 Emissions:
Caddy and T6 Reflect Progress
Volkswagen has set itself the target of reducing fuel consumption for each new model by 10–15% compared with its predecessor.
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has taken up the challenge and set new benchmarks with the introduction of new engines for the
commercial variants of the Caddy 4 and T6 models. In the Caddy, we have succeeded in reducing emissions by up to 30g CO2/km – up to
20% less than the previous version.
The engine range includes a 3-cylinder TSI unit and a natural-gas engine in the Caddy TGI. Meanwhile, fuel efficiency in the T6 range has
been improved by 20% on average. BlueMotion Technology, including a start-stop system and brake energy regeneration, is standard on
these models.
e-load up!
This small delivery vehicle is big on environmental credentials.
§§ Zero emissions, maximum 990-liter payload capacity for up
to 360 kg of goods at a vehicle length of just 3.60 meters
§§ Versatile, microvan offering A+ class energy efficiency, two seats, four doors, and lots of space in the rear
§§ Leather steering wheel, electric windows, “Climatronic” air conditioning system, 15” alloy wheels, halogen headlights
and LED daytime running lights standard across the e-load up! range
The e-load up! is the ideal solution for anyone clocking up the miles in downtown traffic, such as couriers, pizza delivery drivers
and service engineers. This smallest of commercial vehicles is big on payload capacity but has a tiny footprint on the road – great for
drivers who need to zip around the city, stopping, starting, parking, loading and unloading.

154

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Volkswagen Nutzfahrzeuge

“Think Blue. Factory”: Volkswagen Environmental Program
Meets 2018 Targets Ahead of Schedule
In the reporting period, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles once again achieved a significant cut in energy consumption at its Hanover
site. Compared with the 2010 baseline, when the “Think Blue. Factory.” program was launched, the site consumed around 15% less
energy in 2016 despite producing a record 189,600 vehicles. The energy savings equate to the annual average energy usage of around
10,000 households.
Compared with the 2010 baseline, the company now uses 17% less water and has slashed waste for disposal (non-recyclable waste)
by an amazing 75%. CO2 and solvent emissions have fallen by 11% and 13% respectively. At the same time, production volumes have
risen significantly in all areas of activity, with 45% more vehicles, 6.4% more cooling systems and 52% more castings.
The savings for each of the five key indicators are even more impressive after adding the number of vehicles produced into the
equation; efficiency improvements range from 31% (water) to 85% (waste). Thus the Hanover site has already exceeded Volkswagen’s
stated aim of improving these figures by 25% by 2018.
Ralf Ohliger, the Environment Officer in Hanover, reported that “the successes of the ‘Think Blue. Factory.’ environmental program
have come about as a result of technical solutions and the many innovative ideas and measures suggested by our workforce. Green
production has become a major competitive advantage for us. And our Hanover plant is definitely benefiting from the progress we
have made.”
The monetary value of the reduced costs associated with these environmental improvements amount to some €6.5 million over
the year.
The key measures that contributed to the success of “Think Blue. Factory” included:
§§ New, efficient servo press lines (“PXL”)
§§ Upgrades to the latest, energy-efficient laser technology in the body shop
§§ Smart finish-drying control system (LAVA load-dependent volume flow adjustment)
§§ Installation of innovative color changers and highly efficient application technology in the paintshop
§§ Optimization of the rinsing processes and introduction of
a VOC-free rinsing thinner in the paintshop
§§ Implementation of a new ventilation concept combined with a modernized power supply for the
ventilation system in vehicle assembly
§§ Commissioning of new low-energy, resource-efficient
smelting lines in the alloy foundry
§§ Changeover to a waste water-free process in the radiator manufacturing plant
§§ Systematic out-of-hours shutdown of production equipment and infrastructure
Since the “Think Blue. Factory.” initiative was introduced in 2010, all Volkswagen and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brand production sites have been working to achieve major improvements in plant resource efficiency while simultaneously reducing emissions.
The five key indicators that “Think Blue. Factory.” is seeking to improve by 25% per production unit by 2018 include energy and water
consumption, waste disposal, and solvent and CO2 emissions.
SPRINT” Language and Integration Project
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has joined forces with the Hanover-based Volkswagen Akademie vocational training organization
to support “SPRINT”, a language and integration project for young refugees aged 16–21. The focus of the project has been on work
induction. Basic technical skills were taught in an activity-­based course similar to an introductory vocational training program. At the
same time, the young people improved their language skills, and learned about motivation, punctuality and appropriate behavior.
54 young refugees took part in the project over the course of the year.

155

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Commercial Vehicles

“SPRINT”, the language and integration project, teaches the following content over a 12-month period:
§§ Module I: German language skills (15 hours per week, at vocational school)
§§ Module II: Introduction to regional culture and traditions (10 hours per week, at vocational school)
§§ Module III: Introduction to the local world of work (10 hours per week, at Volkswagen Akademie in Hanover)

Biodiversity Campaign to Revitalize River Warta
In autumn 2016, Volkswagen Poznań worked with the “Save the Fish” foundation and local municipal council to organize a biodiversity
campaign. As part of the campaign, and with the help of local schoolchildren, almost 1 million fish were released into the river Warta.
The activities included fun environmental games and competitions. Before releasing the fish, the schoolchildren took part in an
edu­cational activity about water ecology. Following an environmental disaster in 2015, in which 150 km of the river Warta became
polluted, the campaign was intended to remedy the situation and restore the ecological balance of the river.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
“Urban Logistics” Pilot Project
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is engaged in an ongoing dialog
with Hanover, state capital of Lower Saxony, and the Hanover-Braunschweig-Göttingen-Wolfsburg metropolitan region, on how best to
improve the urban logistics infrastructure. One example of this joint
work is the “Urban Logistics” pilot project involving the City, the
metropolitan region, Leibniz University of Hanover, the University
of Applied Sciences and Arts in Hanover, Braunschweig University
of Technology, the Deutsche Post DHL mail and logistics group, and
enercity, the Hanover city utilities company. This collaboration is
based on two guiding principles: first, that future logistics must be
focused on the needs of people in a livable city, and second, that
future logistics in a climate-neutral Hanover must be based on quiet,
safe, zero-emission transport solutions and an innovative urban
infrastructure.
Neighborhood Dialog
The Hanover plant maintains a regular dialog with its neighbors.
News about the brand and plant is distributed in a spirit of transpar-

ency. Company representatives make a point of listening to critical
questions from local residents, for example about emissions or the
local traffic situation. This neighborhood dialog has been in place
at Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles since 1998. The open dialog
format has helped to break down skepticism and fostered a climate
of mutual understanding. The ongoing discourse with the factory’s
neighbors has become an integral part of Volkswagen Commercial
Vehicles’ corporate and environmental policy.
Dialog and Community Involvement
Volkswagen’s Polish plants in Poznań and Września also maintain
regular dialog with their neighbors. At least two meetings with
local residents are held each year by all four plants. The meetings
are organized with local leaders such as village elders or community councils. Agenda items include the current situation at the
factories, as well as social responsibility. One of the social projects
in 2016 was the creation of a football pitch in a joint initiative with
the neighbors of the Crafter plant in Września.

AWARDS
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles models won 32 international
first-place awards in reader and expert rankings published by
renowned industry journals and committees in 2016. The Caddy,
T6 and other vehicles also won awards for their sustainability
credentials. For example:
The Caddy from Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles won the “Green
Van” prize in 2016. Once again, VerkehrsRundschau and Trucker
magazines presented this award for the most environmentally
friendly commercial vehicle in 2016. The Caddy Maxi was nominated in a category comprising five other vans. It emerged as the victor
in the competition thanks to its low fuel consumption, compliance
with Euro 6 exhaust emission standards across the range, and
ability to transport up to 669 kg in a 4.2 m3 load space. The tests
run by VerkehrsRundschau and Trucker magazines were based on a
standardized test route involving a mix of city streets, motorways
and minor highways. All of the vans in the test were driven by the

same test driver on the same roads, carrying the same 500 kg load.
According to the magazines’ results, the Caddy used 5.8 liters of
fuel per 100 km. In addition to the fuel consumption under test
conditions, the ratings also took account of the load space dimensions and actual payload weight (based on the calculated weight
of the empty test vehicle with a full tank of fuel and driver). Additional points were awarded for fuel-saving technology and the
Euro 6-compliant diesel engine.
The new generation of diesel units used in the Caddy meets the
latest Euro 6 requirements, as well as the new limits applicable
to commercial vehicles from September 2016. TGI versions of
both the Caddy and Caddy Maxi are also available. These 1.4-liter
engines are tuned to use less fuel and run on cost-efficient CNG.
All Caddy engines are fitted with a start-stop system, brake energy
regeneration, and tires with optimized rolling resistance.

156

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Scania

Driving the shift

Scania is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of heavy-duty
trucks, urban and intercity buses, and industrial and marine engines.
The company has been a Volkswagen Group brand since 2008. On
our way to becoming a leading provider of solutions for sustainable transport – a key corporate objective – Scania creates value for
customers, employees and society alike. Scania focuses on producing
efficient, low-carbon solutions that enhance customer profitability,
well aware that success in these efforts depends on close collaboration and partnerships with the aim of finding solutions along the
entire value chain. By succeeding in this ambition, we strengthen
our own competitiveness, profitability and future success. In 2016,
Scania’s sales revenue totaled €10.6 billion.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“We are committed to becoming the leader in the shift
toward a sustainable transport system, creating a
world of mobility that is better for business, society
and the environment”

157

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Scania

The New Premium
In August 2016, Scania marked its 125th anniversary with the launch of a new generation of
trucks, the biggest investment in the company’s history. Created to set a new premium standard
in the transport industry, the new products and services also represent a major landmark on the
journey toward the future of sustainable transport. The new truck delivers 5% fuel savings on
average due to an improved powertrain and better aerodynamics. As part of the focus on safety,
the new vehicle also includes the world’s first rollover side curtain airbag for trucks. Scania’s unique
solution has the potential to significantly reduce the severity of injuries from rollover accidents.

BRT Accra Ghana
Scania aims to drive sustainable mobility in rapidly growing cities by offering clever, cost-efficient
bus and coach systems and associated services. In Ghana’s capital city of Accra, Scania is rolling
out the most comprehensive and complete Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system in the company’s history.
With 245 connected buses operating in their own dedicated lanes, the system is improving the
quality of life in one of Africa’s largest cities.

World’s First Electric Road
In June 2016, the world’s first electric road was inaugurated near the Swedish city of Gävle.
Scania’s electrically powered truck was the first to drive the route in open highway traffic, using
conductive technology developed by Siemens. The truck on the road is a Euro 6-certified hybrid
that operates as an electric vehicle when on the electrified road lane and as a regular hybrid
running on biofuel at other times, for example when overtaking. A second truck will go into opera­
tion in June 2017.

OTHER PROJECTS
Transport Academy to Support Ghana’s BRT System
To ensure that the new BRT system in Accra continues to operate successfully, skilled technicians are needed more than ever. To provide in-­
demand knowledge of heavy-duty vehicles, Scania offers students vocational training at its modern workshop facility. In collaboration with
the Government Technical Training Centre (GTTC), a vocational school, Scania provides specialized training for 30 students per year.
ETHA – Fossil Fuel Alternatives
During 2016, Scania launched the ETHA initiative in cooperation with Lantmännen, a Swedish agricultural cooperative. The purpose of ETHA
is to make it easy for companies to choose a sustainable solution without compromising on their needs. ETHA is a full-scale solution for
customers, with Scania providing the vehicle technology and Lantmännen providing locally produced bioethanol as well as the necessary
infrastructure. This combined effort is reducing CO2 emissions by 90% – good for customers and the environment.
Scania for Nutrition
For the past few years, Scania India has been working with four villages on education, health, hygiene and the environment. The foundation
stone is the provision of basic education, which improves employment opportunities, changes attitudes to issues like child marriage, and
enhances health and hygiene by encouraging better sanitary conditions and functioning toilets. Scania also supplies safe drinking water to
schools and daycare centers in the villages, and runs a program called Scania for Nutrition that provides nutritional supplements for improving
general health and the villagers’ daily lives.

p
158

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Scania

Ecolution by Scania
Ecolution by Scania combines our tailored products with driver services. Based on continuous customer dialog, the common goal is improved
fuel efficiency. Through optimized vehicle specifications, performance diagnostics, driver training and monthly follow-ups, we can significantly reduce fuel-consumption levels and CO2 emissions.
During 2016, Scania increased the number of contracts sold with Ecolution by 37% over 2015, saving our customers on average 12% in fuel
and CO2 emissions.
Skill Capture
Skill Capture is Scania’s framework for developing diversity and inclusion practices and implementing them in our everyday business. The
purpose of Skill Capture is reflected in the name: to help Scania capture the diversity of skills, expertise and viewpoints of our most valuable
assets – our employees.
The process starts with Skill Capture Initial Labs, which focus on establishing ways of working that will allow all our present and future employees to perform at their full potential in a diverse, inclusive corporate culture. This results in concrete actions taken by our management teams.
To spread best practices and bring together the most urgently needed improvements, Scania will track how corporate attitudes change
throughout the process. Starting in 2016, Initial Labs have been conducted with Scania’s top management teams, including the Executive
Board. To measure the progress of employees’ perception of Scania as a diverse and inclusive company, questions on this issue were included
in the 2016 Employee Satisfaction Barometer survey.
New Ways of Working
Aiming to find new ways of working and new ideas for dealing with challenging issues surrounding sustainability, the Procurement department launched the Wild and Crazy project. The Wild and Crazy project is about giving interested purchasers from different departments
the opportunity to work together on developing new solutions for challenges facing the Procurement division. The project team members
split up into groups to tackle specific issues. After working on each issue for two to three months, they present the results to representatives
of Scania’s senior management.
Scania’s Own Transport
Scania wants to be the benchmark in sustainable logistics. In parallel with actively improving our own transportation network to increase
efficiency in logistical flows and minimize CO2 emissions, we also ensure that social and legal issues are taken into account. To adopt these
best practices, decisions within our logistical operations are based on achieving the best balance between three imperatives: CO2 emissions,
quality and cost. When sourcing transport solutions, Scania assigns the same value to CO2 reduction as to cost-cutting measures or quality
improvements. In two important tenders, this approach immediately resulted in emission reductions of 19% and 22% respectively, without
compromising quality or increasing costs.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Sustainable Transport Forum
On August 23, 2016, Scania held a Sustainable Transport Forum
in Paris, bringing together some of the world’s most prominent
decision-­makers and influencers in the sustainability sphere.
“Driving the Shift” focused on how the transport industry can play
a crucial transformative role in moving the world toward a sustainable future. There was unanimous agreement in the Forum on
the overwhelming and urgent need to make lasting changes for
the good of all.
Swedish Leadership on Sustainable Development (SLSD)
Scania is an active member of SLSD, a multi-stakeholder network
for sustainable development. The members of this network share
knowledge and carry out joint projects to promote sustainable
development and reduce poverty. In addition to climate and environmental issues, focal topics in 2016 included promoting the decent
work agenda and tackling corruption.

ABC City
By steadily increasing the demand for transport solutions that are
efficient, high-capacity and low-carbon, cities are a key driver of
change. Improving infrastructure and reducing fuel consumption
in cities requires an end-to-end approach that takes account of
specific but diverse transport assignments and needs. ABC, the
Activity-­Based City, is a project launched by Scania in partnership
with Skanska, MTR and WSP, four companies with experience in
sustainable and innovative city building. The joint project aims to
show what cities capable of meeting the urban challenges of the
future might look like.

159

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Scania

AWARDS

INTERNATIONAL TRUCK OF THE YEAR

WINNER OF EUROPE’S “1,000-POINT TEST”

Within a few weeks of launch, the S-series in
Scania’s new truck range was honored with the
prestigious “International Truck of the Year”
award. The jury was fulsome in its praise, saying,
“With its new range, Scania has delivered a truck
that represents a real ‘state of the art’ offering
in the heavy-duty segment, capable of satisfying
not only today’s but also tomorrow’s transport
needs.”

The new truck was named the winner in Europe’s
1,000-Point Test, one of Europe’s largest
comparative truck tests believed by many to be
the toughest.

SCANIA P320 HYBRID TAKES THE “KS-ENERGIEUND UMWELTPREIS” 2016

160

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands MAN

We provide efficient transportation
and energy solutions
The MAN Group is one of the leading commercial vehicle, engine
and mechanical engineering companies in Europe. As a supplier
of trucks, buses, transporters, diesel engines, turbomachinery
and special-purpose transmissions, MAN is a market leader in all
areas of business activity. In 2016, its 53,824-strong workforce
generated sales revenues of €13.6 billion and an operating profit
of €204 million.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
Munich Cogeneration Plant and Climate Pact with City Business Community
2016 saw the completion of the project to build a cogeneration plant (CHP) at the Munich site.
When the 2.5 MW natural gas CHP went on line in December, it started to contribute toward meeting the site’s electricity and heating requirements, marking a major milestone in MAN’s climate
strategy and “Green Production” initiative. Up to 20% of the site’s electricity requirement can now
be generated by this local facility.
In addition, by using the heat that is produced during the electricity generation process, the CHP
helps to make significant energy and carbon savings. This measure alone will contribute some 40%
of the carbon emission reduction target for the Munich site.
As part of the Munich business community climate pact launched by the City of Munich, MAN is
in touch with 14 other large local firms that share the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
The agreement was signed by all partners at the City Hall in 2016, when an initial workshop was
held. The result of the workshop was a joint measure involving apprentices from all participating
companies, who trained as “energy scouts” in sessions provided by the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry. MAN’s principal contribution to the climate pact is the construction of the Munich CHP,
as well as other climate-friendly construction projects on site.

161

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands MAN

Energy-efficient LED Lighting
All parts of the MAN SE group of companies ramped up their efforts to switch over to energy-­
efficient lighting in 2016. Following successful testing of installations completed in previous years,
MAN has now completed indoor and outdoor LED lighting installations at over 20 of the sites ope­
rated by MAN Truck & Bus, MAN Diesel & Turbo, MAN Latin America and Renk. Not only do these
projects tap into LEDs’ great potential for improving energy efficiency, they have also optimized the
way lighting is used. Modern lighting control systems are helping to deploy efficient lighting in a
targeted manner.

Refugee Relief
Auch 2016 arbeitete MAN eng mit dem SOS-Kinderdorf zusammen. Schwerpunkt bildeten in
In 2016, MAN once again worked closely with SOS Children’s Villages. With total donations of
€150,000, MAN is currently supporting a range of educational projects that prepare children and
young people for independent living. This year’s focus was on refugee relief initiatives.
An example of the projects that were funded is the social lunch club at the SOS Children’s Village
in Salzgitter. This club provides children from deprived families with a hot meal before helping
them with their homework.
MAN also supports projects at the SOS Children’s Villages in Ammersee and Augsburg, where un­
accompanied child refugees are looked after in several residential homes. In addition to activities designed to teach important life skills, these children receive German language tuition to help them
integrate successfully into their new home.
MAN’s commitment to SOS Children’s Village is not simply financial; employees are also encouraged
to do charitable work. For example, MAN trainees organized a basketball match and a MAN factory
tour for young refugees. In addition, four MAN employees in Munich work as mentors, helping
young people with their schoolwork and in their search for jobs.
In fiscal year 2016, 39 refugees joined the MAN Group via introductory courses, apprenticeships, internships or various forms of employment.

IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF MAN CLIMATE STRATEGY

MAN continued to pursue its climate objectives in 2016, as the
company seeks to reduce carbon emissions by 25% by 2020.
CO2 emissions from the company’s plants have been reduced by
19.8% compared with the 2008 baseline.

These include:

At first glance, this marks further progress. Even at second
glance, it confirms the success of the measures that have been
adopted. Despite a 5% increase in sales at MAN Truck & Bus,
the direct correlation between production volume and CO2
emissions is steadily declining. A number of projects were completed in 2016, the effects of which had not yet become fully
evident in the year under review; thus their full impact will only
become clear in the 2017 report.

§§ Further expansion of the central well water supply for energy-­
efficient cooling

§§ The Munich CHP, where two 2.5 MW generators are helping
to reduce annual CO2 emissions by approximately 9,500 t

§§ Comprehensive renovation of lighting systems at over
20 different production locations
§§ Replacement of distributed heating systems by a central CHP
at the Rheine plant
§§ Replacement of pump systems and drives by more efficient
installations at several sites


162



p

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands MAN

In addition to cutting CO2 emissions from its sites, MAN has
also made major leaps forward in reducing the carbon footprint of its products. More than 90% of carbon emissions are
produced during the use phase of a product’s life cycle. For this
reason, research and development activities are now focusing
on making commercial vehicles, engines and turbomachinery
more efficient, more economical and greener.

However, driving style can also have a significant impact on the
fuel consumption of buses and trucks. This has been borne out by
the Connected Co-Driver Training program run by MAN ProfiDrive,
in which a trainer, acting as a virtual passenger, gives advice to the
driver over a set period. Several hundred test drives have shown
that this training approach can result in annual savings of up to
3,500 liters of diesel fuel over a total distance of 150,000 km of
long-haul operation.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Customer Participation and Dialog
Engaging in dialog with our customers is a core initiative of our
climate strategy, offering valuable opportunities to share ideas
about reducing global carbon emissions. After all, many of them
have also set targets to for limiting CO2. Understanding the future
needs of our customers is essential for us at MAN. By incorporating
customers’ requirements into the development of our products
and services, we can improve the value added. Since 2009, focus
groups comprising selected truck and bus customers have been
giving us their feedback and holding discussions with MAN experts
and MAN Truck & Bus sales executives. We also seek to enter into
dialog with customers at trade fairs in order to discuss specific
topics. For example, at Power-Gen Europe 2016, MAN Diesel &
Turbo introduced a modular power plant concept, while our entire
maritime portfolio was present at the leading maritime trade fair
SMM 2016.
Customer Satisfaction
Alongside our employees, our customers are our most important
stakeholders, because they have a significant impact on our business
success. To foster long-term relationships with customers so that

we can better understand their needs, we carry out regular surveys
across all areas of our business. These help to establish whether
customers are satisfied with our products and services. For example,
MAN Truck & Bus is constantly gaging customer satisfaction through
its ongoing Customer-First Study (CFS). In 2016, around 40,000 customers were interviewed by phone as part of the CFS study – considerably more than in the previous year. Over 90% of the respondents
rated MAN Truck & Bus as “good” or better, and 70% as “very good”.
Thus, customer satisfaction has improved compared with 2015.
Every two years, MAN Diesel & Turbo sends out a comprehensive
customer survey as part of the company’s Customer Satisfaction
Monitoring program. In 2015, some 4,000 customers were asked
about the company’s products and services. 35% of the respondents
rated MAN Diesel & Turbo’s performance as “good”, 42% as “very
good” and 9% as “excellent”. MAN Diesel & Turbo’s next global customer satisfaction survey will be conducted in 2017.
We will use the results of these surveys to test the effectiveness of
the measures introduced to improve customer satisfaction and to
determine what further actions to take.

AWARDS

The NEOPLAN Skyliner has been awarded the
International busplaner Sustainability Prize 2017.

163

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Volkswagen Financial Services

Corporate Responsibility at
Volkswagen Financial Services AG
As a global financial services provider and member of the Volkswagen Group, we firmly believe that our business model can only be
successful if we act in a sustainable, responsible manner – now and
in the future. In reporting year 2016, we continued to pursue a range
of activities and topics based on our understanding of corporate
responsibility (CR). In light of the emissions issue, we will review
our CR activities in 2017 and make any adjustments that may be
necessary. In particular, we will communicate intensively with our
partners on this, in order to determine whether and on what conditions collaboration will be possible in the future.

Caddy delivery van M1 KR/LR 1,4–2,0l TDI/TSI/TGI SCR/BM/BMT/4MOTION – fuel
consumption in l/100 km: urban 7.3–4.9 / extra-urban 5.2 / combined 6.0–4.1;
CO2 emissions in g/km: 146–109 (combined); CO2 efficiency class: C-A+

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016
My Finance Coach
Volkswagen Financial Services AG provided funding for the My Finance Coach social enterprise
­through to the summer of 2016. This initiative aimed to encourage children and young people to
take a closer interest in economic affairs, and to teach them life skills for dealing with money. Some
280 of Volkswagen Financial Services AG’s employees volunteered and were trained as Finance
Coaches. They were deployed in pairs to secondary schools, where they worked with teaching staff
to explain complicated monetary and financial concepts to the students. Using a range of school­
friendly classroom materials, the volunteers showed the young people how to manage their own
personal finances responsibly.
In addition, Volkswagen Financial Services AG was involved as a jury member in a nationwide competition for youngsters learning about financial affairs. The competition is a core component of
the My Finance Coach course materials, and pupils attending a wide variety of schools across the
country take part in the competition throughout the academic year.
For more than ten years, Volkswagen Financial Services AG has been supporting free mobility for
children, young people and the elderly with its “Bus Project”. This project, organized in cooperation
with the Kunstmuseum Wolfsburg, enables participants to experience modern works of art exhi­
bited at the art museum over a 16-week period each year. More than 60,000 school students and
some 7,500 senior citizens have visited these exhibitions since the project first started in 2002.

164

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Brands Volkswagen Financial Services

Social and Regional Responsibility
Volkswagen Financial Services AG founded its charitable foundation for disadvantaged children
in Braunschweig in December 2008. “Stiftung – Unsere Kinder in Braunschweig” provides nine
establishments – including daycare centers, primary schools and high schools – with customized
educational support, including healthy eating, physical education and early musical training.
Several other institutions such as sports and youth clubs are also supported on an ad-hoc basis.
In 2016, the foundation continued to fund the “Gewaltfrei Lernen” (non-violent learning), “Klasse
2000” (class of 2000) and “Vorbereiten auf das Berufsleben” (preparing for working life) projects.
Two new schemes for 2016 included a project that uses theater as a tool for teaching language
skills, and another that gives primary schoolchildren the opportunity to experience a day out in
nature.
Volkswagen Financial Services AG also carries out regular fundraising campaigns for charities. Its
employee donation program, “Belegschaftsspende Mai”, supported a regional charity. Money
from the “Restcentspende” (spare cents) initiative was donated to the terre des hommes “One
hour for the future” campaign. For the third year running, the workforce held a very successful
collection to donate articles to the “Fairkauf” charity department store.
Among the company’s various voluntary activities, the Works Council’s Christmas Tree Wishlist
initiative, carried out in cooperation with a range of charities, has become a firm favorite. In 2016,
employees answered the Christmas wishes of 547 socially disadvantaged children.
As in the previous year, we continued to make donations to refugee charities. A dedicated website
at www.fsag-hilft.de acts as a permanent portal for employees seeking volunteer opportunities.
The money raised by employee donations in 2015, which was doubled to €68,490 by the company,
is being used to fund refugee aid projects managed by Refugium, a refugee relief organization
in Braunschweig.

Partnership between Volkswagen Financial Services
and German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU)
The aim of the joint venture between Volkswagen Financial Services and German Nature and
Biodiversity Conservation Union is to help NABU with wetland conservation projects.
Over the past few years, the two partners have received numerous awards for their commitment.
For example, in addition to the project being named an official project of the UN Decade on Bio­
diversity in 2014 and 2016, they also received the EcoGlobe in 2010, as well as an award in Germany’s
“Ausgewählter Ort im Land der Ideen” contest in 2012. This provides further evidence that under
Volkswagen’s environmental program, ecological and economic benefits go hand in hand. Volkswagen
Financial Services and NABU have extended their joint involvement in wetland conservation at international level, too. NABU and Volkswagen Financial Services launched the International Peatland Conservation Fund to provide finance for international nature conservation and climate
protection activities in, for example, the Slowinski National Park in Poland. By 2019, we plan to
con­tri­bute €1 million in funding to this initiative. The fund complements the German Peatland Conservation Fund, founded in 2012, to which we have already contributed €2 million.

165

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Argentina

Regions
Volkswagen
Argentina
While Argentina’s economic problems continued in 2016, and the
automotive industry was obliged to adjust production headcounts
in response to declining demand from Brazil, VW Argentina was able
to continue with all CSR projects currently in progress. Despite the
above-mentioned production problems, VW Argentina maintained
its market leadership in Argentina for the 13th year running.
Employee volunteers played an important role in helping children
in kindergartens and social institutions. Nearly every weekend,
volunteers organized trips in the Amarok pickups provided by VW,
bringing donations of clothes, shoes and educational materials to
schools and kindergartens in the interior of the country. As Christmas
approached, we organized the “A smile for Christmas” campaign,
during which employees donated toys and traditional Argentinian
Christmas pastries and sweets to children at five kindergartens and
nursery schools. The company also made financial donations for
improving the infrastructure in the five schools.
VW also continued to organize the eye exam program for elementary schools in the Tigre region. Since this program was launched
in 2008, more than 10,000 children with impaired vision have been
given support.
In a joint project with VW, the Ferdinand Porsche Institute and the
National Technological University have continued to run a teaching

program for engineers specializing in the automotive industry. Over
the last year, 400 students have taken part in the program – in fact,
it was the most popular course at the university. This year will see
the graduation of the first student intake, helping to improve the
competitiveness of Argentina’s automotive industry.

ELECTRIC MOBILITY
VW Argentina has also subscribed to the global “TOGETHER –
­Strategy 2025” and has started to focus on electric mobility.

still a way to go, we firmly believe that e-mobility is the future and
are determined to bring it to fruition.

Commercializing and developing all-electric vehicles in Argentina
will require close cooperation between the industry and government
agencies, in order to generate favorable legal conditions and an infrastructure capable of supporting the new vehicles’ unconventional
characteristics. This work has already started, and although there is

With this in mind, we have already started to show off electrically
powered vehicles to our customers in the form of the GTE Golf at the
e-Golf exhibition on our Summer Stand in Cariló, Buenos Aires.

166

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Argentina

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“Eye exams and glasses for
thousands of elementary-school children
in the municipality of Tigre.”

Sustainable Mobility
All the vehicles which we sell in Argentina comply with government regulations and are optimized
to perform well under local conditions. The Argentine Ministry of Industry must grant an LCM
(Model Configuration License) allowing the sale of these vehicles. Starting in 2016, all new vehicles
must comply with the Euro 4 and Euro 5 emissions standards; from 2017, all vehicles must comply
with these standards.

VW Gol (not available in Europe)

Ferdinand Porsche Institute
Education for the future: Volkswagen is helping the Universidad Tecnológica Nacional in Buenos Aires to train engineers for the automotive industry.
The students complete their degree program – which combines engineering
and technology – at the university’s Ferdinand Porsche Institute in Pacheco,
which was established by Volkswagen. The program is the only one of its
kind in Argentina. There are 437 students in the UTN/FPI of which 242 study
Engineering in Automotive Industry and 195 study Superior Technical Management in Automotive Industry.
VW Amarok 3.0 TDI (SCR BMT) – fuel consumption in l/100 km:
urban 8.6 / extra-urban 7.3 / combined 7.8; CO2 emissions in
g/km: 204-203 (combined); CO2 efficiency class: D

Improving Vision
As part of a project launched in 2008, Volkswagen donates equipment for measuring the visual
acuity of children in elementary schools. For example, Volkswagen provides a vehicle for local
medical personnel to travel to the schools. In 2015, more than 5,000 schoolchildren in 54 schools
were given eye examinations. More than 1,000 pairs of glasses were paid for by Volkswagen and
provided to those in need. Since the project was initiated in 2008, more than 9,000 children with
impaired vision have been given assistance.

167

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Argentina

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
In Argentina, we maintain an intensive dialog with our suppliers,
dealers and employees, as well as local NGOs. For the third time,
VW Argentina organized a meeting with more than 70 suppliers to
discuss sustainability targets.

AWARDS

SENIOR
AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTER

GROUP AWARDS:
COZZUOL IS LOCAL CHAMPION
For the first time in the history of Volkswagen
Group Awards, the Local Champion award
was won by an Argentinian company,
Cozzuol. We took the opportunity to organize
a modest local celebration to which members
of the press were also invited. The
news was featured by several automotive
magazines and websites.

168

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen do Brasil

Volkswagen do Brasil

Volkswagen do Brasil is one of the largest private companies in
­Brazil. Over a history stretching back more than 60 years, ­Volkswagen
do Brasil has accumulated some impressive milestones: more than
22 million vehicles produced, more than 3.5 million vehicles exported,
and historical domestic sales in excess of 18 million units.
The company has three vehicle plants and one engine plant. The
three factories for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles are
complete production facilities. The Volkswagen do Brasil plants are:
§§ Anchieta.
§§ Taubaté.
§§ São Carlos.
§§ Curitiba.
In November 2016, during the São Paulo International Auto Show,
Volkswagen do Brasil announced that it will be investing R$7 billion
in its operations by 2020.
Since June 2016, the Volkswagen brand has been working under a
new regional structure in South America, which also includes Central
America and the Caribbean; this is progressing in line with the company’s regionalization strategy.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

“Volkswagen do Brasil was awarded
the title of Brazil’s Most Admired Company
by CartaCapital magazine.”

169

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen do Brasil

Volkswagen do Brasil invests in a social program to train,
recognize and reward young entrepreneurs in paraná
In 2016, the “Geração Emprendedora Paraná” (Entrepreneurial Generation Parana
State) project was set up with the NGO Aliança Empreendedora and the state
­government, enabling 410 young people to benefit from training and winning
awards for their projects and business ideas developed in the community. The project
is part-funded by a tax incentive related to investment in the production of the Golf
MQB project at the São José dos Pinhais plant. The revenue covers a 15-year period
(starting in 2016) and will continue to support such initiatives, focusing even more
intensively on social development, entrepreneurship and innovation, and on various
aspects of Industry 4.0, Artificial Intelligence and digital business inclusion for
future generations.
http://www.desafioparana.com.br/
https://drive.google.com/a/aliancaempreendedora.org.br/file/d/0By_bZblN8UarS1ExSEFNMlFFQTQ/view?usp=drive_web

Volkswagen do Brasil has a presence in world challenge rescue 2016
In 2016, Volkswagen do Brasil provided nearly 40 vehicles for vehicle extraction training sessions
at the São Paulo State Firefighter Academy. The vehicles were used in rescue simulations during
events such as Rescue Days – which address rescue procedures for firefighters in Brazil and Latin
America. The Fire Department’s engagement helps prepare and ensure more efficient rescue
procedures for potential victims of traffic accidents. Ten of these cars were used in the World
Rescue Challenge (WRC), the biggest international rescue event carried out in a simulated environ­
ment. In October 2016, Brazil hosted the event, the purpose of which is to raise awareness of the
topic within the community, improve professional techniques and encourage knowledge sharing.

Volkswagen do Brasil receives “selo conpet” for vehicle energy efficiency
This is the second time Volkswagen has won this award, on this occasion for 26 different models. The “Selo Conpet” Trophy was presented at the São Paulo International
Motor Show. The award recognizes participants in the INMETRO Vehicle Labeling Program whose vehicles have obtained dual “Green Classification” for fuel consumption.
Volkswagen has obtained this classification for 26 models, including the up!, up! I-Motion, cross up!, cross up! I-Motion, up! TSI, cross up! TSI, New Gol 1.0, New Gol 1.6, New
Voyage 1.0, New Voyage 1.6, New Saveiro CS (single cabin), New Saveiro CE (extended
cabin), New Saveiro CD (double cabin), New Saveiro Cross CE (extended cabin), Fox 1.0,
Fox 1.6, Fox 1.6 16V, Fox 1.6 16V I- Motion, CrossFox, CrossFox I-Motion, Golf 1.0 TSI,
Golf 1.4 TSI, Golf Variant TSI 1.4, Jetta 1.4 TSI, Jetta 1.4 TSI Automatic and Passat TSI.

170

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen do Brasil

OTHER PROJECTS
Volkswagen launches regionalization strategy
In 2016, Volkswagen launched its Regionalization Strategy and created a new structure in South America that also incorporates Central
America and the Caribbean. The President and CEO of Volkswagen do Brasil, David Powels, is now responsible for all the Volkswagen
brand’s operations and activities in the new SAM Region (South America, Central America and the Caribbean), supported by an Executive Committee. The SAM Region is composed of 29 countries, has a population of 500 million people and boasts annual vehicle sales
of 4.4 million units. In this region, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Chile and Peru represent 85% of the brand’s sales. With this regionalization strategy, Volkswagen aims to connect more closely with consumers, becoming even more agile and competitive in all regions of
the world. The aim is to enchant customers by offering products and services that are updated and adapted in response to local needs.
Through lean structures and more agile decision-making, the brand intends to strengthen internal entrepreneurship and profitability
in order to foster sustainable growth. Volkswagen do Brasil will continue to work in cooperation with Volkswagen head office, but will
have more autonomy to make decisions, plus greater responsibility for targets and results.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Every three years, Volkswagen do Brasil reviews its materiality
matrix in order to update the key topics of interest to stakeholders
covered in the document. By late 2014 and early 2015, the company
had expanded the stakeholder survey process last performed as
part of the document’s development process in 2012, by contacting
representatives of the following priority stakeholders: individual and
corporate customers, communities surrounding all four production
plants, dealerships, companies in the automotive sector, employees
at all four units, Class Entities, vendors, public-sector agencies, financial institutions, company executives, German head offices, NGOs,
and trade unions/associations. This process involved more than
400 interviews and discussion meetings.
A total of 38 topics were mapped, 15 of which were prioritized as
the topics of greatest relevance for both the company and its stakeholders. These topics include:
1. Eco-efficient products
2. Efficient production: use of resources and materials
3. Sustainable supply chain
4. Economic performance in Brazil
5. Risk management, compliance and conformity
6. Business ethics
7. Vehicle safety

8. Employment
9. Emissions
10. Mobility
11. Social investments
12. Vision and strategy
13. Disposal of materials, parts and vehicle maintenance
14. Customer satisfaction
15. Occupational health and safety
Upon due analysis of the materiality matrix results in a meeting of
the company’s Executive Committee, executives decided not to cover
the Mobility topic in this year’s edition due to its strategic business
nature. The Executive Committee members did, however, decide to
cover the three following topics in this edition. These topics were
mapped in the materiality matrix, but ranked below the cut-off line,
set at 50% for both company and stakeholders. The executives chose
to cover these topics in this document due to their high relevance for
the business:
16. Technology
17. union relations and
18. sustainability education

171

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen do Brasil

AWARDS

EA211 1.0 TSI NAMED
“ENGINE OF THE YEAR 2016
AUTOESPORTE MAGAZINE

VOLKSWAGEN DO BRASIL HONORED
AT “AEA ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD 2016”
CEREMONY

The new EA211 1.0 TSI Total Flex engine
was named “Engine of the Year 2016” at the
49th edition of the Car of the Year Award,
Brazil’s most important automotive award
sponsored by Autoesporte magazine. The jury
was composed of 16 industry journalists and
guest engineers.

Volkswagen do Brasil was honored at the “10th
AEA Environment Award” ceremony organized
by the Brazilian Association of Automotive
Engineering (AEA). The “Program of Excellence
in Industrial Waste Management at Volkswagen
do Brasil” received an honorable mention
in the “Environmental Responsibility” category.
The company also received recognition for
contributing to the success of PROCONVE (the
Motor Vehicles Air Pollution Control Program),
which was launched 30 years ago.

MOVE UP! TSI NAMED
“BEST SUSTAINABLE CAR”
CAR AND DRIVER MAGAZINE
The “Ten Best 2016” by Car and Driver
magazine was judged by a jury of journalists
from the magazine, who chose the move up!
TSI as the “Best Sustainable Car” and the
speed up! TSI as the “Best Hatch”, highlighting
the 1.0 TSI Total Flex engine. The competition
evaluated 231 models for sale on the
Brazilian market.

p

172

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen do Brasil

VOLKSWAGEN WINS FOUR
CATEGORIES IN “JORNAL DO CARRO”
BEST OF YEAR AWARD

VOLKSWAGEN DO BRASIL NAMED
“NOTABLE COMPANY 2016”
IN AUTOMOTIVE CATEGORY

Volkswagen was the winner in four categories
of the “Best of the Year” award sponsored
by the Jornal do Carro (based in the state
of São Paulo), with the Golf Hatch (medium
hatchback), Golf Variant and Saveiro (light
truck) models. The brand was also considered
the Best Value Reseller. This was the 11th
edition of the award, which has 26 categories
and is made on the basis of votes by newspaper
employees and readers.

Volkswagen do Brasil won the “Notable Company 2016” award in the Vehicles category,
bestowed by Consumidor Moderno magazine.
For the third year running, the competition
evaluated the performance of 200 Brazilian
companies in 19 sectors during 2015. The study
that selected the award winners was developed by the Center for Standard Intelligence
(CIP), based on research and studies carried
out in partnership with several institutes and
consultancies, including GfK Custom Research
Brasil, Officina Sophia, DOM Strategy Partners
and EISE / HiveLab. The study analyses how
companies act and are perceived in a number
of different areas. To be considered “Notable”, a
company must show consistent performance in
“Branding”, “Investments” and “Value”.

173

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group China

Volkswagen Group
China
The Volkswagen Group started building relationships with China
back in 1978. The first Santana was produced in Shanghai in April
1983. In October 1984, SAIC Volkswagen Corporation Ltd., the
Volkswagen Group’s first joint venture in China, was established in
Shanghai. In February 1991, FAW-Volkswagen Corporation Ltd. was
set up in Changchun, creating the Volkswagen Group’s second joint
venture in China.
The Volkswagen Group’s business activities in China include the
production, sale and services of complete vehicles and parts such
as engines and transmissions. All the Group’s automotive brands
have a business presence in China through Volkswagen Group China
and its subsidiaries.
Since entering the Chinese market, the Volkswagen Group has risen
to a market-leading position in China. In 2016, together with its
two joint ventures – SAIC VOLKSWAGEN and FAW-Volkswagen –
Volkswagen Group China delivered 3.98 million vehicles to customers on the Chinese mainland and in Hong Kong.

Showcar BUDD-e

With the aim of adapting to the rapid development of China’s auto­
motive market, Volkswagen Group intends to invest €22 billion in
China between 2015 and 2019. Two thirds of this figure will be spent
on projects relating to sustainable development, such as high-efficiency products and powertrain technologies, and on the development of more environment-friendly production methods.

Group China announced a further ¥50 million for continued support
of CSR projects in sustainable mobility, environmental protection
and social care, and for expanding the Group’s contribution to Chinese
social and economic development.

As China’s most dependable partner, Volkswagen not only provides
high-quality products and reliable services to Chinese customers,
but also spares no effort to fulfil its corporate social responsibilities.
In 2014, Volkswagen Group China announced initial funding of ¥50
million for CSR projects in China. In November 2016, Volkswagen

By continuing to bring the most advanced and environmentally
sound technologies and products to China, as well as providing
professional services that further enhance customer satisfaction,
the Volkswagen Group is driving toward a sustainable future with
China’s automobile industry.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

“We at Volkswagen Group China are increasing
our efforts to develop e-mobility solutions that meet
the needs of our customers.”

174

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group China

Volkswagen Group and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile
Explore Future Cooperation on NEV in China
On September 7, 2016, Volkswagen AG and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd.
(JAC) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in Wolfsburg, heralding the next
phase of negotiations between the two companies with the aim of engaging in a
long-term joint venture for the development of new energy vehicles (NEV) in China.
According to the MoU, the two parties intend to enter into discussions to evaluate
the outlook and feasibility of a new joint venture (“JV”) focusing on NEV products; to
engage in full-scope cooperation in various fields, including research and development, manufacture, sales and mobility services of NEV and parts designed to improve
fuel efficiency. The main goal will be to further develop zero-emission mobility.
Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd (JAC) is a full-service automotive company encompassing R&D, production, sales and services, and
other business activities related to commercial and passenger vehicles, including powertrains. The company has two vehicle brands,
“Jianghuai” and “Ankai”.
JAC delivered 333,639 vehicles and chassis in the first six months of 2016 (+14.15%) and NEV sales increased massively over the previous
year (+261%), while SUV sales maintained steady growth (+30%).

Volkswagen Group China Environmental Education Fund Established to Support China’s
Environmental Education Activities Nationwide
German Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel joined Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in Beijing on June 14,
2016, to witness the signing of an agreement between Volkswagen Group China and the Chinese
Ministry of Environmental Protection’s China Environmental Protection Foundation. The agreement creates a new fund supporting environmental education training for teachers across the
country.
The “1,000 Environment-Friendly Youth Ambassadors Action Program” was initiated, is managed
and executed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection’s Center for Environmental Education
and Communication (CEEC). Volkswagen is the sole sponsor of the ¥10 million phased program,
which will run for at least three years, initially from 2016 to 2019. Stated goals include: training
1,000 teachers nationwide each year on environmental issues and environmental education methods,
thereby enabling them to develop and tailor suitable curricula. The program will also deliver environmental education and eco-planning skills to thousands of students, empowering them to make
an impact in their schools and communities.
Volkswagen will open its Chinese manufacturing facilities for teacher visits, sharing best practices
and key lessons in environmental protection.

Volkswagen Plants in China Take Energy-Saving and Emission-Reducing Measures
Combined Heat and Power Project (CHP) of SAIC VOLKSWAGEN
SAIC VOLKSWAGEN’s CHP project is the first such project to be implemented by an
industrial firm in Shanghai, while the Anting plant is the first VWAG factory in
China to use this system. The primary energy source is natural gas and the plant can
produce both electricity and steam for heating purposes. The project was officially
launched in April 2015 and when the system came online in February 2016, it was
capable of generating 26 MW of electricity and 60 t of steam per hour , capable of
meeting most of the electricity demand of CPA3 and the entire Anting plant’s steam
requirements.



p
175

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group China

SAIC VOLKSWAGEN’s CHP project represents the efficient use of natural energy,
maximizing the utilization of energy resources and significantly reducing emissions
of CO2, greenhouse gases and TSP. The implementation of this project will reduce
energy consumption by the equivalent of 11,594 t of standard coal each year, and
reduce annual CO2 emissions by 59,308 t. It is making an important contribution to
the protection of air quality.
Second Stage Sewage Treatment Facility at FAW-Volkswagen Car Plant in Foshan
The second stage of the sewage treatment station at the FAW-Volkswagen car plant
in Foshan is used to treat industrial and sanitary sewage with a treatment capacity
of 2,200 m3/d. Thanks to an aerobic MBR process, effluent water quality can match
the GB/T18920-2002 “Reuse of recycled urban water – water quality standards for
urban miscellaneous water consumption”. The recycled water is reused for irrigation
and toilet flushing. Some 200,000 t of water is recycled annually. The plant has an
advanced treatment capacity of 300,000 – 400,000 t of recycled water for delivery to
the cooling water circulation system.
The sewage station is mainly equipped with high-efficiency motors and water
pumps (all with frequency control); the degree of automation at the sewage station
is well above 90%. The latest flat-membrane process has been implemented for the
first time at any FAW-Volkswagen plant, capable of dealing with more than double
the usual sludge load. The membrane is also easy to maintain and does not retain
pollution. Biological deodorization technology has been used to maintain good air
quality around the sewage station area.
Recycling Industrial Steam Condensation instead of Reverse Osmosis (RO) Water
for Washing Machines at Volkswagen Automatic Transmission (Dalian) Co., Ltd.
At VWATD, water from industrial steam condensate was plumbed through to
washing machines by adding pipes connecting the industrial steam system to the
RO water tank. The main impact of the improvement is a considerable saving in
freshwater, as well as a reduction in the working frequency of the RO water pumps
and discharges of domestic sewage.
In 2016, the improved process saved 4,800 t of RO water by generating 400 t of
condensation water per month. Since the RO water system’s production efficiency
is around 60%, this represents a saving of around 8,000 t of fresh water. In financial
terms, this is equivalent to an annual saving of ¥35,200.

176

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group China

OTHER PROJECTS
Volkswagen Group China is Pioneering the Future of Mobility
Volkswagen Group China has just signed agreements for potential partnerships with five companies specializing in new mobility services.
VGC aims to collaborate intensively with Shouqi Group in the rapidly growing carsharing business. With its longtime automotive partners in
Shanghai and Changchun, the company also plans to tap into the fast-growing pre-owned car market and explore strategic cooperation with
leading online pre-owned car market company Youxin. With Didi Chuxing, it plans to form a strategic partnership for high-quality, safe and
efficient mobility services.
This year is FAW-Volkswagen’s 25th anniversary. 2016 marked the start of even more strategic undertakings. New operational bases have
been established in northern and eastern China, bringing FAW-Volkswagen’s nationwide strategy full circle. In terms of customer satisfaction,
FAW-Volkswagen has continued to enhance quality awareness and improve localization and R&D capabilities, while the company’s newly
released Sustainable Development Report underscores its ongoing commitment to green, responsible, sustainable development.
Faced with new situations and challenges in the market, FAW-Volkswagen is formulating its own Strategy 2025 as the company keeps
abreast of new developments and changes within the industry. The company remains committed to sustainable, innovation-driven development, as well as ongoing engagement as a responsible corporate social citizen.
Volkswagen Group China Cultural Exchange Fund to Foster Youth Exchanges between Germany and China
With an endowment of ¥1 million, the Cultural Exchange Fund is an important element in Volkswagen’s programs and activities during the
2016 Year of China-Germany Youth Exchange inaugurated by Chinese President Xi Jinping and German Federal President Joachim Gauck
in Beijing in March 2016. The fund targets young people up to 35 years of age, particularly young scientists, artists and journalists, and will
increase socio-cultural exchanges in education, culture, science and the media.
The fund echoes the wider goals of Volkswagen’s Cultural Engagement Program “PACE”, fostering Participation, Connection and Exchange.
Under this umbrella, Volkswagen aims to create new opportunities for young people to participate in cultural and art programs; proactively
connect people to new cultures using social media and lighthouse programs; and promote active bilateral exchanges between China and
Germany, allowing the youth of both countries to develop deeper bilateral cooperation and gain broader experience and knowledge
Youth Environmental Ambassadors Action & Education Program
The Youth Environmental Ambassadors Action & Education Program (YEAAEP) is part of Volkswagen’s program for the 2016 Year of China-­
Germany Youth Exchange inaugurated in Beijing by Chinese President Xi Jinping and German Federal President Joachim Gauck in March
2016. 24 PASch schools, supported by the Goethe-Institut in 14 cities across China, will take part in the 10-month program, which focuses on
three areas: Forests, Climate and Resource Efficiency. Experts from environmental organizations such as WWF and Beijing Forestry University
have worked together with experts on German as a foreign language to compile a teaching manual for the program.
Upon completion of YEAAEP, all participating PaSch schools will be honored with an environmental protection award, with each student
receiving a Young Environmental Ambassador certificate. This program will be rolled out further in the future.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Being aware of our internal and external stakeholders’ needs and
expectations is a crucial prerequisite for business success. Volkswagen Group China actively seeks out and maintains dialogs with our
stakeholders. Stakeholders include governmental organizations,
public organizations, international organizations, non-governmental
organizations, local communities, business partners, customers,
suppliers, employees, analysts and investors – a network of relationships that is expanding in parallel with our market presence.

177

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group China

AWARDS

PERSONNEL

CSR

Volkswagen Group China awarded
“Top Employer” in 2016

Volkswagen Group China awarded
“Best CSR Management 2016” by
Southern Weekly

SAIC VOLKSWAGEN awarded
“Top Employer” in 2016

Volkswagen Group China awarded
“Best Company for CSR 2016” by
China Newsweek

FAW-Volkswagen awarded
“Top Employer” in 2016

Volkswagen Group China awarded
“2016 China Excellent Contribution to
CSR” by Sina Gongyi
Volkswagen Group China awarded
“2016 China CSR Excellence Award” and
“China Top 100 Corporate Citizen” by China
Philanthropy Times
Volkswagen Group China awarded
“2016 Best Corporate Citizen” by China
Automotive News

178

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen India

Volkswagen
India
Through Volkswagen Group India, headquartered in Pune, Maharashtra, the Volkswagen Group is represented by five passenger car
brands in India: Audi, Lamborghini, Porsche, ŠKODA and Volkswagen.
The Volkswagen Group has been present in India for the last 16 years
and began its Indian journey with the introduction of the ŠKODA
brand in 2001. The Audi and Volkswagen brands were launched in
India in 2007, and the Porsche and Lamborghini brands followed in
2012. Each brand has its own character and operates as an independent entity in the market.
Volkswagen Group India has over 25 models and over 240 dealerships in India and operates two plants in Pune and Aurangabad.
The Pune plant has an annual manufacturing capacity of 200,000
cars (using a three-shift system) and currently manufactures the
Volkswagen Polo, Ameo, Vento, as well as the ŠKODA Rapid. The Aurangabad plant produces various premium and luxury Audi, ŠKODA
and Volkswagen models sold in India and has an annual capacity of
approximately 89,000 vehicles.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

“By reducing the amount of waste generated
in its plants by 30.5%, VW India was
able to meet an important environmental
protection objective.”

Mobile Healthcare
The Mobile Health Clinic Project is Volkswagen India’s endeavor to bring healthcare
for minor ailments to the doorsteps of 2,200 people who live in the villages of Kanhewadi tarf Chakan and Sangurdi. Neither of these villages have a primary healthcare
center or a resident doctor.
A team comprising two doctors (senior and assistant), and a compounder employed
by Volkswagen India, visits the two villages five days a week – Tuesday to Saturday,
excluding company and national holidays. Patients are provided with free medical
consultations and medicines. The service is also available to guests and others who
visit the two villages.
Since launch in August 2015, Volkswagen India’s Mobile Health Clinic has provided over 17,000 free medical consultations and free
medicines worth € 5200. The team has also referred patients to nearby hospitals for further medical consultation and/or hospital
admission based on their condition. The Mobile Health Clinic also runs awareness programs on various health-related topics.
VWIPL also carries out blood-group testing for children residing in these villages.

179

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen India

VW Vento (not available in Europe)

Key Environmental Goal Achieved – Three Years ahead of Schedule
The Volkswagen plant in Pune is one of 27 Volkswagen car production plants worldwide participating in the “Think Blue. Factory.” environmental program. With this initiative, Volkswagen is seeking
to reduce the impact of its vehicle production on the environment by 25% per vehicle around the
world. The program was rolled out in 2011 and the Pune plant has been working to achieve this
goal since 2012. During the reporting period, the plant celebrated an important achievement: by
the turn of the year 2014/2015, waste generation had been reduced by 30.5%. This meant that
the Pune plant had met an important target three years ahead of schedule. However, successes
were also achieved in other key areas: CO2 emissions fell by 21.2% and specific energy consumption
decreased by 20.6%.

Fighting Water Shortages
Volkswagen India has built a series of embankments (bunds) for water storage in a
drought-affected village in the State of Maharashtra. This CSR project was undertaken
under the aegis of a State Government initiative (Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan) that aims to
declare around 5,000 villages in the state drought-free every year till 2019.  
These water bunds will have sufficient capacity to store more than 7,500 cubic meters
of water and will be especially beneficial for irrigating farmlands.
This is the second water conservation project undertaken by Volkswagen India after
the recharging of water resources in the village of Guilani in 2013.

OTHER PROJECTS
Promoting Women in Pune
In the reporting period, Volkswagen Group India launched an initiative to promote women at the Pune plant. The aim of this program is to
increase the number of women in the workforce to 30% by 2025. Currently, only around 12% of employees are female. The starting shot was
fired at a kick-off meeting in March, attended by more than 120 female employees, who were given the details of the skills development initiative aimed specifically at women. In practice, there are three cornerstones to the initiative: the Sakhi (friend) Group, the Compass Program
and the Mentor Program. The Sakhi Group seeks to encourage communication between women on a range of different topics, for example
the impact of women on the world economy, best practices, Volkswagen’s business, networks and personal careers. Under the Compass
Program, a select group of women, all of whom have already made progress and established themselves in their respective fields, meets on a
regular basis. They are given several months of training to enable them to further develop their high potential. The Mentor Program supports
women who have already progressed to another level. The focus here is on mentoring, training, strategy and best practice.
Dual Education Mechatronics Apprenticeship Program
In 2011, Volkswagen India Academy introduced a 3.5-year dual education Mechatronics Apprenticeship Program. Based on the German dual
vocational education and training system (VET), the program imparts theoretical and practical knowledge across fields such as mechanical,
electrical and electronic engineering, as well as IT. This is complemented by training in interpersonal skills. Each year the program recruits
16 students who have graduated from class X and meet other eligibility criteria. A unique feature of this program is its focus on recruiting academically bright and financially deserving students from local towns and villages. The students are provided with stipends for the duration
of the program. VW also endeavors to ensure that each new intake comprises at least 25% female students.
The students take the tests administered by the National Council for Vocational Training India and Deutscher Industrie-und Handelkammertag (IGCC). The curriculum is made more challenging by giving the students opportunities to participate in both national and international skills-based competitions. Two cohorts of students have successfully completed the program and are now employed at VW. The fifth cohort
was enrolled in 2015.

180

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen India

AWARDS

VOLKSWAGEN INDIA AWARDED
ISO 9001:2015 CERTIFICATION

VOLKSWAGEN POLO RANKS HIGHEST IN J.D.
POWER ASIA PACIFIC 2014 INDIA APEAL STUDY

The Pune-based German automaker became
one of the first companies in India to receive
this international quality certification. Volkswagen India is also the first company in the
Volkswagen Group to be awarded the ISO
9001:2015 certificate. The certification underlines the consistent quality of the company’s
products and services for customers, and of
the company’s streamlined processes for more
efficient operation.

The Volkswagen Polo was the highest-ranked
car in the premium category of the Automotive
Performance, Execution and Layout (APEAL)
study, based on a customer survey conducted
by J. D. Power Asia Pacific.

181

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen de Mexico

Volkswagen de Mexico

At Volkswagen de Mexico, we see sustainable development as an
opportunity to focus our innovation skills on ensuring the long-term
continuity of our company. It means creating greater value while
using fewer resources. We look after the interests of our employees
and are committed to maintaining long-term relationships with our
distributors, suppliers, the community and our customers. Sustainability means continuous improvement of the technological aspects
of our processes and our vehicles in ways that are beneficial to the
environment and the consumer, always endeavoring to maintain
our technological and quality-focused leadership in the automotive
industry.
Social responsibility implies taking an active part in developing the
communities around our plants in Puebla and Silao. In addition to
creating well-paid jobs, Volkswagen of Mexico provides support for
cultural, educational and environmental protection activities – in
addition to the philanthropic activities in which our employees are
involved.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

“Volkswagen is the most visible German company
in Mexico. That is why the Volkswagen Group is supporting
the activities of the German-Mexican year as a premium
partner of the ‘Alliance for the Future’ being forged between the
two nations.”

Bilateral German-Mexican Year
Germany and Mexico have a long history of economic and cultural collaboration. Big
German companies like Volkswagen have been present in Mexico for many decades.
The German Chamber of Industry and Commerce has 750 members and has been active since 1929. German Schools in Mexico City and Puebla are over 100 years old. And
cultural exchange between the two countries has been promoted by the Goethe-Institut for 50 years now with the support of the Cultural Foundation of German Industry,
of which Volkswagen is also a member.
Starting in June 2016, both countries launched the Bilateral German–Mexican Year,
which includes over 1,000 events in the fields of culture, science and economics, under
the aegis of the “Alliance for the Future” that is being forged between the two nations.
The Volkswagen Group is supporting the activities of the German-Mexican Year as a
premium partner and active participant in several events, such as the German Industrial
Fair and the PopUp Tour of several Mexican cities.

182

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen de Mexico

Nature Conservation Program “Por Amor a México”
Since 2006, Volkswagen de México has been funding biodiversity research and
conservation projects in Mexico. By 2016, 11 Mexican scientists had been awarded
grants of €30,000 each, in recognition of their contributions to species conservation
in Mexico and in support of their ongoing work. Each year, the same amount has been
donated to a nature conservation research project undertaken by scientists in a protected area. Volkswagen de México has become the country’s most important private
donor in the field of biodiversity.
Starting in 2017, under the new motto “Volkswagen, Por Amor a México”, the award
is being opened up to the whole of Mexico’s conservationist community, representing
all kinds of nature conservation projects, any of which may qualify for the €30,000
grant. A jury of highly respected Mexican scientists specializing in nature conservation will select the two best qualified projects, which
will then be submitted for voting by the general public via Volkswagen’s social media channels.
The first award winner of this new contest will be announced in mid-2017.

A Day for the Future – Supporting the Disadvantaged
In 2002, Volkswagen de México joined forces with the trade union to launch the
initiative “A Day for the Future”. Employees voluntarily donate one day’s wages,
and the company provides matching funds. The money is donated to projects run
by institutions in the state of Puebla that are dedicated to helping sick, orphaned,
abandoned or disabled children. Since it was founded 15 years ago, the program
has raised a total of €2 million for more than 250 projects.
Since 2014, the Volkswagen fund has also supported a government initiative to
improve nutrition for the poorest sections of the population who are at risk of
malnutrition. A mobile soup kitchen was installed near the Puebla factory, in the
county of Cuautlancingo; it provides two meals per day to the needy population,
mainly children and the elderly. The county and state governments maintain the
soup kitchen, while Volkswagen provides funding for the food.

183

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen de Mexico

AWARDS

MODELO DE EQUIDAD DE GÉNERO (INSTITUTO
NACIONAL DE LAS MUJERES) 2012–2015

EMPRESA SOCIALMENTE RESPONSABLE
(CEMEFI) 2011–2016

EMPRESA INCLUYENTE “GILBERTO RINCÓN
GALLARDO” (STPS) 2014

EMPRESA FAMILIARMENTE RESPONSABLE
(STPS) 2014

ORGANIZACIÓN RESPONSABLEMENTE
SALUDABLE (CESB) 2015

LISTED AS “GREAT PLACE TO WORK” 2016

LISTED AS “TOP EMPLOYER MÉXICO” 2016

184

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group Russia

Volkswagen Group
Russia
Volkswagen Group Russia is committed to giving back to the local
community through social welfare projects which tackle acute
problems. Good corporate citizenship is a natural and essential part
of the company’s role in a large country like Russia.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 2016

“We have been able to assist around 300 families
using the two VW Multivans we made available to the
children’s hospice in St. Petersburg.”

Talent Acquisition in Joint Venture with Automotive Transport College
The joint venture between the Volkswagen Group Rus Academy in Moscow and the
Automotive Transport College, set up as a pilot project in 2015, continued successfully
in 2016. The joint program offers two years of in-service training and study incorporated into the standard curriculum. Upon completing their studies, the most talented
college students selected for the program are given apprenticeships in the workshops
of Volkswagen Group Rus dealers. The project aims to tie young people into the Volkswagen Group at an early stage. The partnership also provides training sessions for the
educators at the college, including in-depth discussion of theory and practice by VW
experts, adding international expertise to the professional knowledge and skills of the
college instructors and preparing them for running similar programs at the college in
the future. The program is warmly welcomed by all those involved and is ongoing.

185

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group Russia

Dual Vocational Education and Training (VET)
In 2010, Volkswagen Group Rus (VGR) and the College for Information Technology and
Administration in the city of Kaluga, 170 kilometers from Moscow, launched a dual
vocational education program which was unique in Russia at that time. Designed by
Volkswagen experts, it is modelled on German programs that combine classroom
education with practical vocational training and aims to prepare skilled professionals
for work in the company. Before this program was established, there was no comparable VET concept of this kind in the country. The Group also cooperates with the
Kaluga branch of the Bauman Moscow State Technical University by offering students
internships at the plant and organizing lectures by company representatives at the
higher education institution. Since the program was launched, 299 students have
successfully completed their training (with 54 graduates in 2016) in six different
specialist or professional fields, and been awarded their certificates of qualification. New professions and qualifications are gradually
being added to the program, further expanding educational cooperation. VGR has actively participated in the development of national professional standards and maintains an ongoing dialog on educational topics with the Federal Institute for the Development of
Education, the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, BIBB, the Deutsch-Russische Auslandshandelskammer and the Ministry of Education and
Science of Kaluga Region.

Road Safety for Schoolchildren
At the start of each school year, from September to October, ŠKODA joins forces
with its dealers in Russia to run ŠKODA Krokha, a nationwide road-safety project
for children aged 7 to 10 years. The initiative, which was first launched in 2011,
includes information events presented in entertaining ways, plus an additional
online element to teach children about the Highway Code and safe road behavior.
In 2016, some 10,000 children from 32 cities in Russia attended road-safety classes
and learned how to behave safely on roads as part of the project.

OTHER PROJECTS
Fit for Work on the International Stage
At regional level, Volkswagen Group Russia is involved in the MOST project in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 400 kilometers (250 miles) from Moscow.
The project is aimed at selected students seeking an international career and offers them educational and professional support over a
12-month period. The company initiated MOST in 2014, in cooperation with the International Community Association of Nizhny Novgorod,
of which Volkswagen Group Rus is an active member, and leading regional universities. The company supports the project by organizing
lectures by company managers, factory visits and work placements.
Volkswagen Group Rus educational projects in cooperation with the Goethe-Institut include the award of corporate scholarships to selected
students. In 2016, the program was extended for another three years. The focus group of the Studienbrücke Deutschland project is composed
of highly motivated, talented and active school students from Moscow and other Russian regions, specializing in science and technical subjects and showing exemplary levels of academic achievement and vision. They are all planning to continue their education at German universities. They receive one year of German language and cross-cultural pre-university training and advisory support in parallel with their regular
school studies. In 2016, five graduates of the program who were given preparatory training with the support of Volkswagen scholarships
successfully entered German universities and are now studying in their specialist subjects. The project is ongoing and has been supported by
Volkswagen Group Rus since 2012.

186

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group Russia

Support for Charitable Institutions
Volkswagen Group Rus supports a number of institutions and organizations committed to social welfare. One example is the children’s hospice in St. Petersburg. Since 2010, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles has been supporting the children’s hospice in St. Petersburg, which is also
the first children’s hospice in Russia. During the reporting period, the company provided two VW Multivans to the hospice for medical and
other trips. Around 300 families made use of the assistance provided by doctors, nurses and psychologists both at home and directly at the
hospice, with further support for improving the quality of life of both patients and their families.
ŠKODA Auto Russia has been part of Volkswagen Group Rus since 2011, and has provided continuous support to well-known international
charity SOS Children’s Villages. Currently, the charity uses 11 ŠKODA Octavia and Yeti cars in various locations to provide much-needed mobility across this enormous country’s vast territories. In 2016, the company invited children under the charity’s supervision to the Ice Hockey
World Championship 2016 in Moscow. It was an unforgettable experience, and for some children the first time they had ever visited the capital.
At Christmas time, Volkswagen Group Rus employees from Moscow, Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod traditionally pay visits and organize donations of gifts or money to orphanages and charities in the vicinity. In 2016, visits were made to six children’s institutions and charities. In June,
employees of the VGR factory in Kaluga spent a day at Kondrovo orphanage organizing sports programs and master classes and talking about
environmental issues with the children. Also in 2016, a group of volunteers from the company’s Moscow office initiated a project with an
orphanage in Kolomna, 100 kilometers (60 miles) from the capital. Every month throughout the year, they visited 27 children, bringing
food and other goods, as well as books and presents. They discussed a wide variety of topics and organized educational games and activities for the kids.
Sport for a Good Cause / Young Football and Hockey Professionals
The company has provided regular support for sports activities in Russia, and in 2016, became involved in the development of youth
sports at the national level. Volkswagen and ŠKODA both continued to organize the Volkswagen Junior Masters Cup and ŠKODA Junior
Ice Hockey Cup in Russia, supporting and developing talented young players from all over the country and popularizing sports and a healthy
lifestyle.
The Volkswagen Junior Masters Cup has been held in Russia since 2006. The winning team at the national level represents the country biannually in the international finals. In 2015/2016, five teams from Moscow and the Moscow region – a total of 65 young football players aged
11–13 – competed to represent Russia at the VW Junior Masters World Cup in France in May 2016. The project is ongoing and will continue
to run across Russia in the future, with the aim of raising further interest in sport generally and football in particular among young players
and potential future football stars.
The partnership and joint venture between ŠKODA in Russia and the Russian Ice Hockey Federation and National Ice Hockey Team has been
extended to provide active support for youth sport in the country. The ŠKODA Junior Ice Hockey Cup is a significant nationwide project aiming
to encourage children’s interest in youth sport. The games are organized at professional venues, and famous ice hockey players share their
experience with future professionals. In 2016, the company invited the winning team to the Ice Hockey World Championship 2016 in Moscow.
VW Commercial Vehicles has been cooperating with the charitable foundation Flag of Kindness in Russia for over five years. Every year
(including 2016), Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles helps the charity with its transport. The Cup of Kindness is a mini football cup organized
across the country as part of the “Under the Flag of Kindness” charity campaign, with 12 teams from well-known companies and enterprises,
as well as famous actors, musicians, singers and sportsmen, who all compete in Moscow to raise money for charity and in particular for medical
research into cures for seriously ill children.
Support for “Day of the City” in Kaluga (up to your decision if this is a relevant item)
Jointly with its dealers, Volkswagen Group Russia traditionally supports “The Day of the City” in Kaluga, where the Group has a production
facility. VW and ŠKODA cars are showcased at the center of the festivities, and factory employees play an active part in the walking parade
along the main streets of downtown, one of the major events of the year in Kaluga.

STAKEHOLDER DIALOG
Active membership of local business associations
(AEB, AHK, ICANN)
AEB = Association of European Businesses in Russia https://www.
aebrus.ru/
AHK = Deutsch-Russische Auslandshandelskammer http://russland.
ahk.de/
ICANN = International Community Association of Nizhny Novgorod
http://icann-nn.ru/

Volkswagen Group Russia is a permanent member of the Council
for Professional Qualifications in the automotive industry under
the Russian President’s National Council for Professional Qualifications (company experts are members of different committees).

187

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group of America

Volkswagen Group of
America
At Volkswagen Group of America (VWGoA), we believe that effectively confronting the social and sustainability challenges of today
and the future requires the collective actions of our employees and
partners. We instill a perseverant drive throughout the company
to work toward the greater good and to be compassionate citizens.
We are proud that our unified efforts have not only enriched our
local communities nationwide, but have strengthened our corporate
culture. Looking ahead, we pledge to work even harder to build the
future we want for our employees, families, neighbors and communities.

VW Golf (modified for the American market)

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

Group of America Joins the Fight Against Breast Cancer
In September 2016, Volkswagen of America collaborated with The Pink Agenda, a
non-profit devoted to eradicating breast cancer, along with breast cancer survivor
and television personality Giuliana Rancic and her FAB-U-WISH initiative, to help
raise money for breast cancer research and improve the lives of those undergoing
breast cancer treatment. As part of the collaboration, Volkswagen auctioned the first
limited-edition 2017 Volkswagen #PinkBeetle to arrive in the U.S. market, raising
$30,272.00, with proceeds benefiting The Pink Agenda’s and FAB-U-WISH’s efforts to
fight against breast cancer.
Employees across the Volkswagen Group of America network also celebrated #PinkBeetle Day to kick off the launch of Volkswagen’s new #PinkBeetle, in conjunction
with Breast Cancer Awareness Month in October. Women In Motion (WIM) Employee
Resource Group (ERG) chapters from VWGoA locations across the country planned
company-wide fundraisers throughout the month to raise money and awareness
for breast cancer research. VWGoA colleagues from across the country helped raise
close to $10,000, with the company matching donations program, for breast cancer
awareness.
In the same month, VW Chattanooga participated in the America Cancer Society’s
Making Strides Against Breast Cancer event, where more than 2,500 supporters and
140 teams raised $150,000 to help the ACS save lives from breast cancer.

188

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Regions Volkswagen Group of America

Sponsoring Young Artists with Disabilities
Volkswagen Group of America is proud of its ongoing relationship with the Kennedy
Center and 14-year sponsorship of VSA’s work. VWGoA has provided more than
$1 million in funding to support these accomplished artists, as well as underscoring
its commitment to diversity and inclusion. The program, which annually features
artwork by artists aged 16 to 25, supports individuals with disabilities during a critical
time in their lives when many are deciding whether to pursue the arts as a career.
In September 2016, fifteen talented visual artists converged in Washington, D.C. for
the culmination of the VSA Emerging Young Artists Program. Every year, this program
awards outstanding young artists with disabilities with cash prizes, professional opportunities, and visibility for their work. Alongside a weekend of career development
activities in D.C., the 2016 winners attended celebratory receptions on Capitol Hill and at the VWGoA’s headquarters Herndon, Va. Their
artwork has embarked on a nine-month tour of galleries and schools throughout the United States. The professional connections and
exposure that each winner receives through this program allow them to take profound steps in their artistic journeys and careers alike.

Volkswagen Group of American Employees Give Back
In 2016, more than 300 Volkswagen Group of America employees volunteered
approximately 900 hours with charitable organizations in the communities where
they live and work as part of the company’s “Get Involved Month,” an initiative
empowering employees across the country to support and give back to their communities within a dedicated month of service.
VWGoA also encourages employees to “Get Involved” year-round, providing robust
incentives for employees to serve their communities. They include a matching
employee donations initiative, a company-wide Dollars for Doers Program that
provides a yearly one-time financial donation to a charity at which a full-time employee has volunteered for eight hours or more, and providing employees with
a paid time off to volunteer.

AWARDS

VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA HONORED
BY THE HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION AS A BEST PLACE
TO WORK FOR LGBT EQUALITY.
At Volkswagen Group of America, we embrace the diversity in our workforce,
and strive to create a culture of respect and inclusion for every employee
regardless of race, creed, religion, origin, gender or sexual orientation. We have proudly
earned a 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2016 Corporate
Equality Index (CEI) and the distinction of “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality”.

189

VOLKSWAGEN KONZERN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Imprint

Imprint
PUBLISHER

Volkswagen AG
Group Sustainability
Letterbox 011/1265
38436 Wolfsburg
Germany

CONTACT

info@volkswagen-nachhaltigkeit.de

EDITING

Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft

CONCEPT, COPY AND DESIGN
Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg
Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft

ENGLISH TRANSLATION
The Words Gym Ltd., UK

PHOTOS

Volkswagen Group and its brands

DATE OF PUBLICATION

Date of Publication: 10 May 2017
© Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft
Errors and mistakes reserve.

DISCLAIMER

At the brands of the Volkswagen Group, work on all types and models never ceases, so please allow
for the fact that changes in design, equipment and technical specifications may be made at any time. Consequently, the data
and descriptions in this report cannot give rise to claims of any kind.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This report contains forward-looking statements on the development of the Volkswagen Group and
its companies as well as on economic and political developments. These statements are assumptions that we based on all the information
available to us at the time of reporting. If the assumptions made fail to materialize or additional risks occur, then the actual results, development and performance of the Group may differ from the forecasts given. The Volkswagen Group therefore assumes no liability for the
forward-looking statements presented here.
The German version is binding. The English version is a convenience translation
for information purposes only.

YOUR FEEDBACK

In the interests of improving and advancing our commitment to sustainability, we would be delighted to receive your feedback
on our sustainability report. You can send us your views online under the above mentioned mail adress.
190

