Sustainability Report

2015/2016

Sustainability Report

2015/2016
Table of Contents

About

WACKER

Key Performance Indicators
About this Report
Introduction by the President & CEO
A Fresh Start
Key Events
Structure and Operations
Management, Supervision and Governance

2
3
4
6
10
12
16

Management
Vision and Goals
Business Principles
Voluntary Commitments
Organization
Dialogue and Materiality Analysis
Goals and Outlook

18
21
22
23
31
36

Supply Chain
Processes and Tools
TfS Supplier Evaluation

40
41

Production and Safety
Environmental Protection Costs
Environmental Performance Assessment
Integrated Production
Energy
Emissions
Soil and Groundwater
Waste
Logistics and Transport
Nature Conservation
Plant and Transport Safety

45
45
46
48
50
55
56
57
60
61

Products
Product Safety
Environmental Compatibility
Research and Development
Sustainable Products

66
70
71
74

Employees
Employment Structure
Personnel Development
Life and Careers
Compensation and Social Benefits
Employee Representation
Occupational Health and Safety

78
79
83
86
89
90

Society

This report was created from the
content of an online version
that offers additional,
interactive features.
www.wacker.com/sustainabilityreport

Donations and Sponsorships
Neighbors
Schools
Universities
Politics and NGOs
Children
Disaster Aid

94
95
96
97
97
98
99

About WACKER
2

Key Performance Indicators

3

About this Report

4

Introduction by the President & CEO

6

A Fresh Start

10

Key Events

12

Structure and Operations

16

Management, Supervision and Governance

About WACKER - Key Performance Indicators

Key Performance
Indicators

GRI 102-7

WACKER at a Glance
€ million

2016

2015

2014

Sales

5,404.2

5,296.2

4,826.4

EBITDA1

1,101.4

1,048.8

1,042.3

20.4

19.8

21.6

6.1

8.1

8.4

Net financial debt3

992.5

1074.0

1,080.6

Capital expenditures4

427.6

834.0

572.2

Depreciation and amortization

735.2

575.4

599.0

Net cash flow5

400.6

22.5

215.7

183.4

175.3

183.1

Personnel expenses

1,379.4

1,350.1

1,246.9

Employees (December 31, number)

17,205

16,972

16,703

3.0

2.6

2.8

Direct (kt)

1,287

1,234

1,251

Indirect (kt)

1,856

1,544

1,420

2,035

1,910

1,990

Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) (t)

920

910

870

Total dust7 (t)

517

389

494

Water use (thousand m3)

231,858

237,060

241,973

Waste (t)

167,140

167,910

158,200

Electricity consumption

5,784

5,147

4,926

Heat consumption

3,947

3,520

3,571

Primary energy use (total)

6,464

6,062

6,081

Results / Return

2

EBITDA margin (%)
ROCE (%)
Financial Position / Cash Flows

Research and Development
Research and development expenses
Employees

Workplace Safety

2

Occupational accidents per 1 million hours worked
Air
CO2 emissions6

NOx nitrogen oxides (t)

Energy (GWh)

1
2
3
4
5

6

7

EBITDA is EBIT before depreciation and amortization.
Margins are calculated based on sales.
Sum of cash and cash equivalents, noncurrent and current securities, and noncurrent and current financial liabilities.
Capital expenditures excluding acquisitions.
Sum of cash flow from operating activities (excluding changes in advance payments) and cash flow from long-term investing activities (before
securities), including additions due to finance leases.
CO2 emissions are measured as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol: “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard”), published
by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions. Scope 2: indirect
emissions from the consumption of purchased energy (converted into CO2 equivalents for purchased electricity) based on national electricity
mixes. For the purposes of sustainability reporting, the Group’s direct CO2 emissions also included intra-plant traffic emissions at our sites,
emissions generated during biological wastewater treatment, and the emissions of the emergency power units used during the shutdown of the
Alz canal at the Burghausen site.
One of our environmental targets concerns total dust emissions. We are reporting on these emissions for 2016 for the first time (calculated
retroactively to 2012, the initial year of our dust-related environmental objective).

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

About WACKER - About this Report

About this Report
GRI 102-1, GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-51, GRI 102-52

Wacker Chemie AG’
AG’ss sustainability report explains how
the
Gr
Group
oup
balances
economic
aspects
with
envir
environmental
onmental and social responsibility
esponsibility.. Published in
English and German, our online report is also available
as a printable PDF ﬁle. The facts and ﬁgur
ﬁgures
es given in this
report rrefer
efer to ﬁscal years 2015 and 2016.
Unless otherwise stated, our statements apply to all
business divisions and sites around the world, as well
as to every subsidiary in which WACKER is the majority
shareholder. The information on our Group structure and
financial position was taken from WACKER’s 2015 and
2016 annual reports. To be as up to date as possible, we
have a section in our Goals chapter to cover future topics
from 2017 onward (editorial deadline: June 1, 2017).

Deﬁning Key Topics
This report offers an honest and comprehensive account
of sustainability at WACKER not only for our customers,
business partners, suppliers and shareholders, but also for
analysts, non-governmental organizations, the authorities,
our sites’ neighbors and our employees. We established
the main contents through ongoing dialogue with our
stakeholders. In 2016, we also surveyed stakeholders and
top management. We used the survey to determine which
sustainability topics stakeholders and top managers

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

consider to be important for WACKER and how they rate
our sustainability efforts. The survey results led to a
materiality analysis. This serves as a basis for specifying
the contents of the sustainability report and reviewing and
updating our sustainability strategy.

Reporting Criteria
Our reporting is based on criteria recommended by future
(a “self-help” initiative run by various German companies),
by the IÖW (the German institute for Ecological Economy
Research) and by the Sustainability Reporting Standards
issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). An index on
the right (under “Services”) refers to the pages that contain
information on the individual GRI indicators.
Our report complies with the “Core” option set out in GRI
standards and takes account of other indicators that relate
to WACKER’s main sustainability issues. We had the GRI
Materiality Disclosures Service review indicators GRI
102-40 to GRI 102-49. The Service confirmed that, at the
time of the GRI review, the indicators mentioned were
correctly placed in the report and the GRI content index.

3
For further details on WACKER’s commitment to
sustainability, please visit www.wacker.com/sustainability.
Our next sustainability report, which covers the period
2017/2018, is scheduled to appear in 2019.

About WACKER - Introduction by the President & CEO

Introduction by the
President & CEO
GRI 102-14, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2

Solar power is one of the most cost-efficient and
environmentally friendly energy sources on earth.
Renewable energy is also one of the 17 goals set by the
United Nations in 2015 for sustainable development. It is
both an honor and a source of inspiration for WACKER to
help bring about at least seven of the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).

Dear Reader,

4

Our business has performed very successfully over the last
two years. 2015 was the first time that we had crossed
the five-billion-euro sales mark. Sustainable business
management, which has always been an integral part of
WACKER’s philosophy and is embodied in our corporate
principles, was a contributory factor in this success.
What’s more, sustainability is one of our five strategic
priorities. In this regard, we focus on two levers:
Efficient processes at our plants and lower
raw-material and energy consumption, coupled with
higher output – the key term here is less
resource-intensive production.
The development of new, sustainable products to
further reduce CO2 emissions.
Today, a significant proportion of our products goes into
sustainable applications, such as polysilicon for solar
installations, additives for adhesives used in wind turbines,
high-performance silicones for electric cars, and
dispersible polymer powder for external thermal insulation
composite systems.
We
produce
high-quality
solar-grade
and
semiconductor-grade polysilicon at our new plant in the
US state of Tennessee. The strong growth experienced by
photovoltaics shows that solar energy has a great future.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

WACKER is just one company and cannot drive
sustainable development alone. For this reason, we feel
it important that our suppliers should be among those
who integrate sustainability into their business processes.
We are committed to the German chemical industry’s
“Together for Sustainability” initiative. Its participants aim
to procure goods and services in a responsible manner
and to improve ecological and social standards among
suppliers. About 500 of our suppliers were assessed
according to sustainability criteria during the last two
years. In this way, we motivate them to make further
improvements. Our company, too, underwent a
corresponding audit and did very well.
The tremendous dedication and considerable expertise of
our employees played a part in this success. They identify
very strongly with their company. 80 percent of our
employees are proud to work for WACKER. This rating was
one of the results of a survey held in 2015.
As a company, we have the duty to raise our employees’
motivation and broaden their expertise. The women who
work at WACKER have excellent training. We need their
skills at every corporate level. Our aim is to get more
women into middle and upper management positions. To
achieve this, we have set quantitative targets for the first
and second levels of our management hierarchy.
As a global company, we understand diversity as including
an appreciation of different cultures and the
acknowledgment that the sheer variety of humankind
enriches our lives. In 2015, WACKER started a groupwide
initiative to promote diversity and inclusion in the
workforce. The company joined Germany’s Diversity
Charter initiative. It is therefore only natural that we are
committed to helping refugees. Education and language
skills are the key to successful integration. Accordingly, we
support projects focused on exactly this aspect.

About WACKER - Introduction by the President & CEO

As a company dedicated to sustainability, we are aware
that becoming sustainable is an ongoing process. We have
not yet reached where we want to be in every respect.
Although we have been recording fewer reportable
workplace accidents than the German chemical-industry
average for several years, we still have not achieved the
goal we set ourselves regarding occupational accidents
with workdays missed. To improve WACKER’s record here,
we are focusing on our new occupational safety programs.

more and more people in the world will profit. We also take
the fight against modern slavery and the violation of human
rights very seriously.
Read this report to find out about what WACKER has
done over the past two years to make the world more
sustainable. We will continue to play our part – with
determination, drive and perseverance.
Munich, Germany – July 2017

We are also encountering challenges in the political arena.
In our view, the abandonment of the principle of free trade
and the rise of protectionism are of particular concern.
WACKER resolutely defends free and fair trade. That is the
only way to create prosperity and growth – from which

Sincerely,
Dr. Rudolf Staudigl
President & CEO of Wacker Chemie AG

5

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

About WACKER - A Fresh Start

A Fresh Start
Eighteen young people fr
from
om Afghanistan, Syria and
Africa attended WACKER
ACKER’’s Car
Career
eer Orientation Week in
2016. Twelve minors who had fled their countries now
live at the Burghausen Vocational Training Center’
Center’ss youth
guest house. Two women fr
from
om Afghanistan and Syria ar
are
e
being trained as ofﬁce administrators. Acting on multiple
levels, WACKER is working to integrate young people.
The work is full of surprises.
At the Burghausen Vocational Training Center (BBiW), six
young people gather eagerly around Alfons Kimberger. A
metal-working instructor, he shows them a metal plate that
they are expected to tailor-cut and shape into a box in
the hours to follow. He explains to the young men from
Afghanistan, Eritrea and Syria what a “center punch” is and
how you use one to place markings on a steel plate that
had already been measured with a metric ruler.

6

Over the course of the day, Kimberger welcomes a total
of three teams of six, who receive initial insights into the
field of metalworking during WACKER’s Career Orientation
Week for young refugees. Other courses on offer include
“chemistry” and “electrical engineering.” Kimberger had
given himself plenty of time for his metalworking course:
one hour for demonstrating and explaining the job, one
hour for the work itself and one hour of buffer. But he
soon realizes that won’t be enough time. After all, he needs
to explain everything in great detail and precisely
demonstrate how to make a smith hammer, for example.
Kimberger is particularly impressed by their efforts,
explaining that “The boys are highly motivated, curious and
polite.”
When finished, none of the metal boxes are perfect, but
that’s not the point. Far more important is the fact that
they have had fun handcrafting something and have gained
an initial insight into the requirements needed for those
interested in training to become an industrial mechanic or
a chemical technician. In addition to practical exercises,
participants benefited from the chance to talk with
WACKER trainees during Orientation Week. They also saw
WACKER’s production facilities, workshops, hydroelectric
power plant, and the giant logistics halls with all the
forklifts and countless blue drums.
The instructors at WACKER gained an important teaching
experience, too. They now know that dealing with young
refugees requires a lot of patience and that it can be quite
difficult to explain something when the potential trainees
speak many different languages. “On the other hand, the

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Orientation Week changed my own perspective,” said
Alfons Kimberger. “I can now relate to these young
people’s situation much better.”
The BBiW’s managing director, Dr. Wolfgang Neef, added
that “As a company, we have a social responsibility, and
when people are fleeing war and violence, we want to
help them to become integrated here. It is not a task
for someone acting alone, but a joint effort involving aid
groups, academic support, political engagement – and of
course support from companies.”

Cooperation in Education
Orientation Week is just one example of how WACKER is
working to help young migrants. Another example is the
SchlaU School in Munich, for which WACKER is providing
a total of €200,000 in funding over several years. The
school is considered a role model for educational work
with refugees – and was recognized with the Bambi Award
for Integration and the “Deutscher Schulpreis” Award for
excellence in education. “I like the fact that WACKER not
only supports us financially, but also collaborates with us
on content,” observed Björn Schalles, who runs the
SchlaU school. “WACKER can teach us, for instance, how
a chemical corporation works and what it means to work
with refugees in rural areas.” Urban and rural structures
differ radically – with associations playing a much larger
role for refugee work in rural areas than they do in cities.
Employees at the SchlaU School, for their part, provided
WACKER’s instructors with valuable tips on interacting
with youth from far away countries and on issues of legal
residence status. The experts from SchlaU also provided
important advice for Orientation Week – the BBiW then
implemented the project in collaboration with the
vocational school in Altötting.
Matthias Lang, a senior faculty member at the school, is
responsible for finding internships for refugee students. In
his opinion, Orientation Week “gave these young people
an excellent, practical look at what it’s like to work in
industry.” After a few weeks, some were able to rule out
a chemical career, while others remained interested. And
they all realized that more than anything else, they had to
improve their German-language skills for training to work
out.

About WACKER - A Fresh Start

Good Prospects at the Youth Guest
House
The guest house with its 78 rooms is a just a stone’s
throw from the BBiW. Most of the rooms are occupied by
trainees from Germany and Austria. But in 2014, explained
Neef, WACKER decided to “allocate some of the available
rooms to unaccompanied minors, so that they had a home
and, above all, prospects.” A total of twelve young people
from Afghanistan and Africa moved in, six of whom are
now attending an integration class at the vocational school
with the aim of successfully completing their secondary
education. The other six have already found
vocational-training positions in the fields of electronics and
automotive mechatronics, and as decorators, butchers
and sales staff. Two social workers support the youths.
“The Afghans and Africans initially kept to themselves,”
said Neef. “But contact with other young people is no
longer a problem for them.” They all play soccer or go
running together now. The only difference at this point is
the contents of the refugees’ refrigerators, where a lack
of sausage and pork is offset by chicken and exotic
vegetables and grains.
WACKER had originally planned to award 5 percent of its
vocational-training positions to refugees. “But then we saw
that wouldn’t work,” said Neef. After all, every applicant is
treated the same, regardless of their country of origin. The
only deciding factor is the question of who is best suited
for a given vocational-training position – but when they
take the aptitude test, many applicants from African and
Arab countries lack the necessary German-language skills.

Homa and Fay: First a Bachelor’s
Degree, Then WACKER Training
The situation was different for Homa and Fayhaa. Both
women have been on a three-year administrative course
in office communications since September 2016 – the only
refugees to start vocational training at WACKER in 2016,
out of 158 trainees in total.
Homa came to Germany in March 2014. Prior to that,
she had studied Persian literature in Afghanistan, gaining
a bachelor’s degree and working for a brief time as a
university instructor. Right from the start, she was told she
must keep her voice down so that the men in adjacent
classrooms wouldn’t hear her. On her second day, one
instructor recommended that she shave off her long black
hair so that it wouldn’t stick out from under her hijab
any more. And shortly after that, a student said to her,
“If you wear nail polish, I’ll cut your finger off.” She was
not allowed to respond to the threat, because women are
forbidden to speak to male students. She was fortunate

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

to have been raised in an open-minded family. While her
mother would have been pleased to see Homa, like her
three sisters, married at age 18, she also accepted Homa’s
preference for taking language courses, pursuing
university studies and traveling. For years, Homa fought
for women’s rights in Afghanistan, asking provocative
questions like: “Why do I have to wear a hijab when men
don’t? And why are men allowed to have four wives, but
I can’t have four husbands?” Statements like that put
Homa’s life in danger. “I could have sacrificed myself in
Afghanistan,” says the 27-year-old today, “but I didn’t want
to do that. I wanted to live.” She fled and now lives with a
family near Burghausen.
Like Homa, Fayhaa, whom everyone calls Fay, also has
a degree – a bachelor’s in business administration that
she earned in the city of Aleppo, Syria. Fay’s professional
prospects were outstanding, and she launched her career
at a telecommunications firm before moving to Dubai with
her husband to take a job as a human resources manager.
Fay’s daughter was born while they were in Dubai. But
when Fay’s husband lost his job and the young family was
wanting to return to Syria, the first bombs began falling
on Aleppo. So, Fay and her husband decided to fly to
Germany in September 2015. They ultimately ended up in
Burghausen, where the local aid group recommended Fay
to apply for work at WACKER.

Learning German from Your Daughter
Fay and Homa couldn’t speak a word of German when they
arrived in Burghausen – Homa, however, already spoke six
other languages and Fay had spoken exclusively English in
Dubai. Both, in other words, are gifted at languages and
found outstanding German teachers in Bavaria. For Homa,
it was her host family – and for 34-year-old Fay, it was her
little daughter learning German (and a bit of Bavarian) at
preschool who, in turn, taught her mom. As a result, Fay
and Homa both passed the aptitude test at WACKER with
flying colors.
Gerhard Stadler, head of WACKER’s administrative careers
unit, personally informed the two by phone that they had
been accepted, asking them to come to the training center
to sign the paperwork. “We usually just send people their
contracts,” he says, “but I wanted to explain everything to
them.” Procedures also needed changing for their journey
to the introductory-week location. “We always go to
Berchtesgaden and take a shortcut through Austria,”
Stadler explained, “but we couldn’t take it this time
because they aren’t allowed to leave the country.”
Incidentally, during the introductory week, Fay translated
for a new WACKER trainee from Hannover – from Bavarian
into German.

7

1

2

3

4

About WACKER - A Fresh Start

Homa experienced a few surprises as soon as she started
her vocational course: “In Afghanistan, I would stand up
and give my boss my seat whenever he came in the room.
That’s different here. And Mr. Stadler makes his own coffee
– that would be inconceivable for a boss in Afghanistan.”
Homa and Fay regularly move to new departments so that
they gradually get to know the whole company. “Working
for WACKER is a dream come true,” says Fay. The chances
are good that the two will be able to stay on at WACKER
after their training. “Good performance guarantees a
position for at least twelve months,” said Stadler. “Plus, the
chances of getting a permanent position aren’t bad.”

which is not shown on the news, such as the culture or the
role of women in Afghanistan.” Wolfgang Neef sees them
as “completely normal, capable young people, and we’re
happy about how they're turning out – just as I always think
it’s great when opportunities are offered and then taken
advantage of.”
Orientation Week will be held again in 2017. It may also
pave the way to a vocational position for one or more
other youths interested in a technical profession. Alfons
Kimberger hopes he will be able to show another group
of young refugees how to make little metal boxes in his
workshop. When that happens, however, he will give the
youngsters much more time. After all, working with
refugees is not a sprint – it’s a marathon. “It takes time,” he
explained, “that’s the only way to make this a success.”

Thanks to Homa and Fay, he gained new insights into life
in Afghanistan and Syria: “It’s not only about war, soldiers
and the Taliban,” he explained. “These two young women
have taught us a lot about their country and its people

9

1

Vocational Orientation Week at the Burghausen
Vocational Training Center (BBiW): instructor Alfons
Kimberger shows a group of young refugees how to
operate a drill.
2 The migrants get a feel for what subjects like “Metals,”
“Chemistry” and “Electrical Engineering” are all about.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

3

Homa (left) and Fayhaa are the first refugees to start
training at WACKER.
4 Dr. Wolfgang Neef is the BBiW’s managing director.
Alongside BBiW instructors, he is committed to integrating
people forced to flee war and violence.

About WACKER - Key Events 2015 – 2016

Key Events
February 2015
Focusing on Health
A new health center for the Burghausen site: WACKER
invested some €4 million to build the new center, which
features state-of-the-art medical technology to provide
flexible health care to the site’s approximately 10,000
employees. The center’s outpatient facility is staffed
around the clock with paramedics.

September 2015
Outstanding Logistics Strategy
The German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) held a
Responsible Care® competition in the reporting year on
the theme of: “We have good ideas for transport safety
and sustainable logistics.” At the award ceremony in
Hamburg, the VCI honored a WACKER project designed
to optimize overseas freight shipments. WACKER had
submitted a strategy for efficient container management.
The strategy has reduced the number of empty containers
transported since 2011 by 20 percent, thereby cutting
CO2 emissions, too.

March 2015
Food-Grade Solid Resins

October 2015

WACKER commissioned a new production plant for
food-grade polyvinyl acetate (PVAc) solid resins at its
Nanjing site in China. The solid resins are used for
manufacturing gumbase. The Group invested around €20
million in this expansion project, strengthening its position
as the world’s leading manufacturer of PVAc solid resins
for the chewing-gum industry.

New Dispersion Plant in the USA
WACKER started operating a new plant for vinyl
acetate-ethylene (VAE) copolymer dispersions at its US
site in Calvert City, Kentucky. The Group invested around
€50 million in expanding production and infrastructure
there. This additional capacity enables WACKER to meet
rising global demand for dispersions and dispersible
polymer powders.

November 2015
Change in Executive Board

10
June 2015
Siltronic AG’s IPO
Siltronic shares started trading on June 11, 2015 in the
regulated market segment of the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange. A total of 12.65 million shares were placed,
consisting of 5 million new shares issued through a capital
increase at Siltronic and 7.65 million shares originally held
by WACKER. The issue price was set at €30 per share.

September 2015
Company of the Year
The weekly publication ICIS Chemical Business named
WACKER as its Company of the Year. The jury stated that
WACKER had achieved strong growth in 2014, kept costs
under control and pushed profits and margins higher
despite a difficult global economic and oil-price
environment. The Group had increased its 2014 sales
under challenging conditions and was well-positioned for
future gains.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Dr. Joachim Rauhut, CFO of Wacker Chemie AG, left the
company when his contract expired on October 31, 2015.
Dr. Tobias Ohler, a WACKER Executive Board member
since early 2013, took over as CFO. Dr. Christian Hartel,
previously in charge of WACKER SILICONES, joined the
Executive Board effective November 1, 2015.

December 2015
New Production Site in the USA
WACKER has been gradually starting up its facilities at the
new polysilicon production site in Charleston, Tennessee
(USA) since December 2015. The new site is the largest
investment project in the Group’s history to date. The
decision to build in Tennessee is part of WACKER’s
strategy of operating fully integrated, local sites for
silicon-based products in the world’s key economic
regions.

March 2016
TCC in Singapore Expanded
WACKER expanded its technical competence center in
Singapore to include a development and test lab for
silicone elastomers, which are used in the electronics and
healthcare sectors. The silicone and polymeric-binder labs
for construction applications were also newly furnished.

About WACKER - Key Events 2015 – 2016

October 2016
Alexander Wacker Innovation Award 2016

April 2016
New Polysilicon Site Starts Up in USA
The new polysilicon site in the US state of Tennessee was
formally opened. The site in Charleston is WACKER’s
single largest investment ever, totaling some US$2.5
billion. We finished commissioning the production facilities
there on schedule in the third quarter. Full capacity is over
20,000 metric tons per annum. Around 650 people work at
the Charleston site.

June 2016

WACKER presented the Alexander Wacker Innovation
Award 2016 to a research team in Burghausen for
developing a 3D printing process. The first industrial 3D
printer manufactures parts from silicones. The high-tech
printer is called ACEO® Imagine Series K, and the
procedure developed by WACKER researchers is
considered a milestone in additive manufacturing.

October 2016
Boosting Silicone Research in the USA
WACKER is boosting its R&D for silicones in the USA with
a lab complex in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The complex is
dedicated to developing new products and business fields
in North, Central and South America, and is scheduled to
begin operations in the first half of 2017.

Expansion of Production in South Korea
WACKER began expanding its production capacities for
silicone rubber at the Jincheon site in South Korea. We
are erecting new plants for manufacturing more silicone
sealants, specialty silicones and liquid silicone rubber for
the construction, electronics and automotive industries.

June 2016

October 2016

Integration Project for Young Refugees

Innovations at K 2016

To mark World Refugee Day on June 20, SchlaU, a
Munich-based refugee initiative, and Wacker Chemie AG
launched a project to enable young refugees in the
Bavarian district of Altötting to start their working lives.
We donated a total of €200,000 to the SchlaU School. The
collaboration with WACKER’s Burghausen Vocational
Training Center (BBiW) aims to help young refugees living
in Bavaria’s Altötting district learn German and to find
them suitable training positions.

At the K 2016 in Düsseldorf, WACKER presented
innovative products and technologies for key industries
such as the automotive, electronics, lighting and
healthcare sectors. Among other innovations, WACKER
showcased textile sensors of silicone film, crystal-clear
encapsulation compounds for LEDs, and optical lenses.
WACKER also presented the world’s first-ever industrial
3D printer for silicones.

November 2016
Investing in Research & Development in China

August 2016

A pilot reactor for vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer (VAE)
dispersions came on stream at the Nanjing site in the
Chinese province of Jiangsu. With the new plant, we are
intensifying our local R&D and expanding our local
product developments, application technology and
customer service offerings.

WACKER Silicone Award 2016
Dr. Alexander Filippou, Professor of Inorganic Chemistry
at the University of Bonn, Germany, received the 2016
WACKER Silicone Award. The award was presented at the
eighth European Silicon Days event in Poznań, Poland

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

December 2016
Cysteine Production Facility Acquired in Spain
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS acquired a large-scale
fermentation plant in northern Spain: the plant at the León
site is to produce cysteine for foods and pharmaceutical
products by fermentation processes.

11

About WACKER - Structure and Operations

Structure and Operations
Group Structure and Business
Operations
GRI 102-2, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-7

WACKER is a globally active company with state-of-the-art
specialty chemical products. Our portfolio includes more
than 3,200 products supplied in over 100 countries.
WACKER products are found in countless everyday items,
ranging from cosmetic powders to solar cells.

12

Silicon Is Our Key Starting Material
Most of our products are based on inorganic starting
materials. Silicon-based products account for 80 percent
of our sales, and products that are primarily
ethylene-related for 20 percent. Our customers come from
virtually every major sector, ranging from consumer goods,
food, pharmaceuticals, textiles and the solar, electrical/
electronics and base-chemical industries, to medical
technology, biotech and mechanical engineering. As a
manufacturer of silicones and polymers, we are particularly
well represented in the automotive and construction
sectors. WACKER is one of the world’s largest
manufacturers of polycrystalline silicon for the solar
industry.

Technical Competence Centers: Support for Sales and
Marketing Activities
WACKER operates all over the world. Our sales strategy
is centered around expanding our presence in growth
markets. In total, WACKER has 49 sales offices in 31
countries. Our sales organization is supplemented not only
by a network of technical competence centers, where
customers learn about WACKER’s product portfolio, but
also by the WACKER ACADEMY, where we offer technical
training sessions on our products and their application
fields. In 2016, we expanded our existing technical
competence center in Singapore.
26 Production Sites
In 2016, WACKER’s integrated global production system
consisted of 26 production sites (2015: 25): Ten were in
Europe, eight in the Americas and eight in Asia. The
Group’s key production location is Burghausen (Germany).
At this site alone, we had some 9,700 employees (including
temporary workers and trainees) on the reporting date of
December 31, 2016. In 2016, Burghausen manufactured
810,000 metric tons of product, accounting for around
50 percent of the Group’s production output. Alongside
Burghausen,
Nünchritz
is
WACKER’s
second
multidivisional site.

Key Factors for Multidivisional Sites

WACKER Group

Burghausen

Captive
energy supply

Integrated
production

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Nünchritz

Qualified
employees
from local area

Long-term
supplier
relations

Areas on site
available for
expansion

About WACKER - Structure and Operations

Legal Structure

responsible for all business in their respective countries.
WACKER’s corporate departments primarily provide
services for the whole Group, although some also have
production-related functions.

GRI 102-3, GRI 102-5

In November 2005, WACKER became a stock corporation
(AG) under German law. Headquartered in Munich, Wacker
Chemie AG held a direct or indirect stake in 59 companies
belonging to the WACKER Group in 2016. The 2016
consolidated financial statements covered 56 fully
consolidated companies. Two companies were accounted
for using the equity method. Wacker Chemie AG and a
number of its subsidiaries also have branch offices, but
they are of only minor significance for the Group.
Five Operating Divisions
WACKER is based on a matrix organization with clearly
defined functions. During the reporting period, the Group
had five business divisions, each with global responsibility
for its products, manufacturing facilities, markets,
customers and results. Regional organizations are

Siltronic AG shares started trading in the regulated market
segment (Prime Standard) of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange
on June 11, 2015. 12.65 million shares were placed. The
total proceeds from the IPO amounted to nearly
€380 million. Following this placement, WACKER remained
the majority shareholder, with a 57.8-percent stake in
Siltronic AG. Early in 2017, WACKER sold an initial
1.8 million shares from its stake in Siltronic AG on the stock
exchange. Then, on March 15, it sold a further 6.3 million
Siltronic shares in a bookbuilding offering to institutional
investors. WACKER’s stake in Siltronic thus fell to 30.8
percent. This transaction enabled WACKER to achieve its
goal of moving into a non-controlling position at Siltronic.
Since March 15, 2017, WACKER’s stake in Siltronic has
been accounted for using the equity method.

Group Structure

13

WACKER Group

Corporate departments

WACKER
SILICONES

Business divisions

WACKER
POLYMERS

WACKER
BIOSOLUTIONS

WACKER
POLYSILICON

SILTRONIC

Group Structure in Terms of Managerial Responsibility

Managerial Responsibility
Structure based on decision-making responsibility and reporting lines

Executive Board

Business divisions

Corporate departments

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Regions

Group coordinators

About WACKER - Structure and Operations

Key Products, Services and Business
Processes
GRI 102-2, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7, GRI 102-15, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2,
GRI 103-3

material for virtually all semiconductor products – whether
for discrete semiconductor components (transistors or
rectifiers) or for microchips (microprocessors, memory
chips).
Divisional Shares in External Sales

Our divisions’ overall range of products and services
remained unchanged during the reporting period. In
several application areas, though, we expanded our
product portfolio. Our WACKER SILICONES division
provides customers with our broadest offering of over
2,800 products. The division manufactures specialties
tailored to customers’ specific needs, and standard
products primarily used as starting materials in silicone
production.

%
17.1

37.0

€5.404,2
million
20.0

WACKER POLYMERS makes state-of-the-art binders and
polymeric additives (such as dispersible polymer powders
and dispersions). These are used in diverse industrial
applications or as base chemicals. Customer sectors
include the paint, coating, paper and adhesive industries.
The main customer for polymeric binders is the
construction industry.

22.0
37.0% WACKER SILICONES
22.0% WACKER POLYMERS
20.0% WACKER POLYSILICON
17.1% SILTRONIC

14
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS, our smallest division, supplies
customized biotech and catalog products for fine
chemicals. Products include pharmaceutical proteins,
cyclodextrins, cysteine, polyvinyl acetate solid resins (for
gumbase), organic intermediates and acetylacetone. The
division focuses on customer-specific solutions for growth
areas, such as food additives, pharmaceutical actives and
agrochemicals.
WACKER POLYSILICON produces hyperpure polysilicon
for the semiconductor, electronics and – above all – solar
sectors. Most of this polysilicon is sent to external
customers.
Siltronic, the leading semiconductor manufacturer,
produces silicon wafers. They are the essential raw

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

3.7 0.2

3.7% WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS
0.2% OTHERS

External Sales by Customer Headquarters
€ million

2016

2015

2014

Europe

1,894.0

1,887.6

1,794.2

950.9

945.1

810.7

2,340.5

2,253.1

2,039.7

The Americas
Asia
Other regions
Group

218.8

210.4

181.8

5,404.2

5,296.2

4,826.4

About WACKER - Management, Supervision and Governance

Management, Supervision
and Governance
Management and Supervision
GRI 102-18, GRI 102-22, GRI 102-23

In compliance with the German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG), Wacker Chemie AG has a two-tier management
system, comprising the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board. The Executive Board has four members.

Executive Board and Supervisory Board in Fiscal 2016
Changes occurred on the Supervisory Board in 2016. The
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Anton
Eisenacker, stepped down effective December 31, 2016
upon his retirement. At its meeting of December 6, 2016,
the Supervisory Board elected Manfred Köppl, already a
board member, as its new Vice Chairman effective January
1, 2017. As a result, Hansgeorg Schuster, already elected
an alternate member, became a full member of the
Supervisory Board as of January 1, 2017.

Executive Board Responsibilities

Dr. Rudolf Staudigl

Governance and Shareholder
Structure

President & CEO
WACKER POLYSILICON
Executive Personnel, Corporate Development, Corporate
Communications, Investor Relations, Corporate Auditing, Legal,
Compliance, Retirement Benefits (since July 1, 2016)
Dr. Christian Hartel
WACKER POLYMERS
Human Resources (Personnel Director), Corporate Engineering
Region: Asia
Dr. Tobias Ohler
SILTRONIC
Corporate Accounting and Tax, Corporate Controlling, Corporate
Finance and Insurance, Information Technology, Technical
Procurement & Logistics, Raw Materials & Energy
Region: The Americas
Auguste Willems
WACKER SILICONES
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS
Sales & Distribution, Corporate Research & Development, Intellectual
Property, Site Management, Corporate Security, Environment/Health/
Safety, Product Stewardship
Regions: Europe, Middle East

Wacker Chemie AG is the parent company and thus
determines the Group’s strategy, overall management,
resource allocation, funding, and communications with key
target groups (especially with the capital market and
shareholders).

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

GRI 102-22

Corporate governance is an important part of a company’s
success and of responsible corporate management and
supervision. Wacker Chemie AG attaches great importance
to the rules of proper corporate governance. In the 2016
annual report, the Executive Board provides details – also
on behalf of the Supervisory Board – on corporate
governance in accordance with Item 3.10 of the German
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) as well as Section
289a (1) and Section 315 (5) of the German Commercial
Code (HGB). It contains the Executive and Supervisory
Boards’ work procedures, the declaration of conformity
pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation
Act (AktG), and information on key corporate management
practices.
Wacker Chemie AG’s largest shareholder continues to be
Dr. Alexander Wacker Familiengesellschaft mbH, Munich.
It holds over 50 percent of the voting shares in Wacker
Chemie AG (2015: over 50 percent). Blue Elephant Holding
GmbH (Pöcking, Germany) once again had no voting-share
changes to report in 2016, with its holding in Wacker
Chemie AG remaining at over 10 percent (2015: over 10
percent).

15

Management
17

Vision and Goals

20

Business Principles

21

Voluntary Commitments

22

Organization

30

Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

35

Goals and Outlook

Management - Vision and Goals

Vision and Goals
GRI 102-15, GRI 103-2, GRI 201-1, GRI 103-1

Founded on a vision and goals, our strategy is an
appreciation of what we aspire to achieve. Our focus is
on profitable growth and securing a leading competitive
position in most of our business fields. The fact that we
have made sustainability one of our strategic goals
emphasizes its importance.

WACKER’s Vision
We develop intelligent solutions for sustainable growth.
WACKER, as an innovative chemical company, makes a
vital contribution to improving the quality of life around the
world.
In the future, we want to continue developing and
supplying solutions that meet our rigorous demands –
creating added value for our customers and shareholders,
and growing sustainably.

WACKER’s Goals
WACKER products and solutions are our customers’
ﬁrst choice.
All of our activities focus on our customers’ needs.
Satisfied customers are the basis of our success.
We aim to continuously raise our product quality and
enhance our services. The better we succeed at this,
the more we can grow with our customers, deepen our
understanding of their needs and provide them with
higher added value.
To achieve this, WACKER focuses on direct contact
and on exchanging information personally. Through our
technical competence centers and the WACKER
ACADEMY, we work closely with customers to develop
tailored solutions. Our strength lies in our long-term
relationships, based on trust, with the people in our
markets.
We want to be one of the world’s best employers.
Our employees’ health and safety are our greatest
assets.
At WACKER, the success we achieve together is based
on a supportive and challenging environment. We
ensure that our employees can develop their skills,
realize their potential, assume responsibility, act
proactively and contribute their own ideas by offering
them basic and advanced training opportunities. What

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

we expect is a performance-oriented mindset, coupled
with sound professional and social skills.
To this end, we want to provide secure jobs,
exceptional employee benefits and a work culture that
facilitates a positive work-life balance. Clearly focused
on commercial success, we value teamwork that is
based on mutual reliance, trust and fairness.
We tap new markets via product and process
innovations for tomorrow’s world.
We develop products that are vital for tomorrow’s world.
That’s why we invest in research and development. Our
innovative strength is reflected in the high sales percentage
of new products.
We know how to transfer new production methods from
development to globally competitive plants. At WACKER,
innovation also means “making what is good even better.”
Our “Wacker Operating System” (WOS) program aims at
systematically optimizing our processes. Employees
receive the necessary training at our own WOS ACADEMY.
As the quality and cost leader in many of our business
sectors, we realize that “becoming better is a never-ending
process.
We continuously increase our company value.
WACKER sees itself as a performance-oriented company,
geared toward increasing its long-term value. Economic
success is essential for pursuing and achieving our
strategic goals.
Our annual sales should grow more than world GNP. We
want to be among the most profitable companies in our
industry. This is why value-based management is
fundamental to our corporate policies. We measure our
success against clearly defined key parameters and
continuously focus on earning more than our cost of
capital.
We want to be among the top three suppliers in each
of our business sectors. To this end, we always strive to
strengthen our competitive edge in cost, quality and
technology.
Our responsibility as a company extends beyond our
business activities.
Our commitment to sustainability encompasses
ecological, economical and social aspects. Our actions
are guided by the underlying principles of the UN’s Global
Compact and the chemical industry’s Responsible Care®
initiative.

17

Management - Vision and Goals

Our products, technologies and processes meet the
highest standards. For years, sustainability has been an
integral part of WACKER’s production and business
processes. One of our greatest strengths is our closed
material loops, where we use byproducts from one
production stage as starting materials for making other
products. This reduces our consumption of energy and
other resources.
Our strong sense of social responsibility is based on deeply
rooted values. We pursue this commitment in the vicinity
of our sites and wherever people are in distress around
the world. Society’s trust in our actions is an essential
component of our long-term economic success.
Our strategic goals are oriented toward the highly
promising fields of energy, urbanization and construction,
digitalization, and rising affluence in emerging countries.
WACKER offers products that satisfy these global trends.
Megatrends

WACKER
Products

18

1

Energy

Polysilicon, and dispersible polymer
powders for the insulation of buildings

Urbanization
and
Construction

Silicone resin emulsion paints,
dispersible polymer powders (tile
adhesives, flooring and sealing
systems), dispersions for paints and
coatings

Digitalization

Silicon wafers, silicones for
encapsulation of electronic
components, polysilicon

Greater
Affluence in
Emerging
Countries

Silicones (textiles, construction,
electronics, cosmetics), cyclodextrins
(food/agriculture), dispersible polymer
powders (construction), dispersions
(paper and packaging industries)

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

New Strategic Goals until 2020
As part of Capital Market Day in October 2016, we
presented our strategy for the WACKER Group until 2020.
Our strategic goals for the next years are:
1. Expanding our production capacities, with capital
expenditures below depreciation.
2. Growing faster than the chemical-industry average.
3. Focusing even more strongly on sustainability.
4. Achieving attractive margins throughout the economic
cycle.
5. Increasing our cash inflow from operating activities.
As part of the “focusing even more strongly on
sustainability” strategic goal, we have initiated a project
that is aimed at developing a sustainable business strategy
and focuses on the following topics:
Increasing the proportion of renewable raw materials
in the chemical divisions (WACKER SILICONES,
WACKER POLYMERS and WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS);
Systematically evaluating the life cycle of the portfolio;
Stepping up communication to customers about the
added value of sustainable products.

Contribution to the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals
In September 2015, over 150 heads of state and
government approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development at the UN Summit in New York. With the
involvement of governments and civil society, 17
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are to be
fulfilled in all countries across the world were drawn up.
These SDGs build on the Millennium Development Goals
that were adopted by the United Nations in 2000 and were
to be achieved by the end of 2015.
WACKER is committed to responsible stewardship and
contributes to the implementation of the following SDGs,
in particular:

Management - Vision and Goals

WACKER’s Contribution to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
UN Goal

WACKER’s Contribution
The WACKER relief fund (WACKER HILFSFONDS) provides support to victims of natural disasters
and helps rebuild devastated regions. Here, the foundation focuses on education for children and
young people.

The energy sources of the future are the sun, wind, water, biomass and geothermal power.
WACKER is making a significant contribution to their efficient use. WACKER is among the main
suppliers worldwide of polysilicon for the production of solar modules, for example. Wind turbines
consist of composite materials that are bonded together. This requires high-impact modifiers,
supplied, for instance, by WACKER. Silicone films from WACKER are used to convert wave power
into electricity.
WACKER ensures that its employees can realize their potential, assume responsibility and
contribute their own ideas by offering them basic and advanced training opportunities. To this end,
we want to provide secure jobs, generous employee benefits and a work culture that facilitates a
positive work-life balance. We place great emphasis on offering all our employees equal
opportunities and humane working conditions. It is furthermore our aim to permanently integrate
employees who are disabled or suffer from long-term occupational disabilities. Vocational training
has always been a key focus of personnel development at WACKER. We offer our employees
attractive compensation and promotion prospects and share our company’s success with them.
Through our R&D activities, we are pursuing the goal of creating innovative products and
applications for new markets and promoting future trends such as sustainable energy production
and storage, the increase in mobility, urbanization, digitalization and the rise in prosperity.

We regard lowering our consumption of raw materials, energy and water as a key aspect of
sustainable business management. Reducing solid, liquid and gaseous waste – in particular
greenhouse gases – is a perpetual goal. In integrated production, we minimize waste by feeding
byproducts back into the production loop. Waste heat from one process is utilized in other
chemical processes. We endeavor to avoid waste throughout a product’s entire life cycle.

With our products, we contribute to reducing the emission of gases that are harmful to the climate.
This includes products for insulating buildings, silicone resins for facade protection, polysilicon for
the production of solar modules, heat-transfer fluids for solar power plants, and silicon-based
materials for lithium-ion batteries. In our own production, we are continuously improving the
energy efficiency of the processes, thus lowering the specific energy consumption and associated
specific CO2 emissions.
WACKER collaborates with suppliers and customers worldwide to promote sustainable business
practices. Two global initiatives form the basis for sustainable corporate management at WACKER:
the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative and the UN’s Global Compact. WACKER is a
member of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. It aims at developing a global program for
responsible procurement of goods and services and improving the ecological and social standards
of suppliers.
WACKER supports the SDG
Guidelines for using the SDG icons: PDF
http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/news/communications-material/

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

19

Management - Business Principles

The depicted SDGs describe:
The global
overcome,

challenges

that

WACKER

can

The significant opportunities for WACKER’s operations,
and
The guiding principle for innovations at WACKER.

help

Business Principles
GRI 102-16

Alongside our vision and goals, our business principles
represent the third pillar of our corporate policy guidelines.
These principles – laid down in five corporate codes –

govern how the Group should achieve its objectives. The
five codes are the Code of Safety, the Code of Conduct,
the Code of Innovation, the Code of Teamwork &
Leadership, and the Code of Sustainability. The codes are
supplemented by a body of regulations and directives.

Vision – Goals – Business Principles

Vision
We develop intelligent solutions for sustainable growth.

20

Customers
WACKER products and
solutions are our
customers’ first choice.

Employees
We want to be one of the
world’s best employers.

Innovations
We tap new markets via
product and process
innovations for
tomorrow’s world.

Code of Safety

Code of Conduct

Code of Innovation

Company Value
We continuously increase
our company value.

Code of Teamwork &
Leadership

Sustainability
Our responsibility as a
company extends
beyond our business
activities.

Code of Sustainability

Regulations
Directives

Code of Conduct

Code of Teamwork & Leadership

The Code of Conduct contains our principles on
interactions with business partners and third parties. It also
regulates how we deal with information, confidentiality and
data security, protection against money laundering and
keeping private and company interests separate.

The Code of Teamwork & Leadership outlines our
understanding of collaboration and management. Special
emphasis is placed on trust and respect, motivation and
success, recognition and development, teamwork and
equal opportunities, work-life balance and the role-model
function of managers.

Code of Conduct
Code of Teamwork & Leadership

Code of Innovation
The Code of Innovation specifies our principles as
applicable to R&D, cooperation, patents and innovation
management.

Code of Safety
The Code of Safety defines our safety culture and sets
safety regulations for workplaces, plants, products and
transport.

Code of Innovation
Code of Safety

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Management - Voluntary Commitments

Code of Sustainability
The Code of Sustainability details principles of
sustainability with which R&D, procurement and logistics,

production and products,
commitment, must comply.

as

well

as

our

social

Code of Sustainability

Voluntary Commitments
GRI 102-11, GRI 102-12, GRI 102-17, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

Two global initiatives form the basis for sustainable
corporate management at WACKER: the chemical
industry’s Responsible Care® initiative and the UN’s Global
Compact. WACKER has been an active member of the
Responsible Care® initiative since 1991. Program
participants undertake to continually improve health,
safety and environmental performance on a voluntary basis
– even in the absence of statutory requirements.
In 2015, WACKER Greater China won the Responsible
Care® Chairman’s Award for the second time. With this
award, the Association of International Chemical
Manufacturers in China (AICM) acknowledged WACKER’s
endeavors in environmental and health protection, as well
as in plant and workplace safety. WACKER Greater China
joined the initiative in 2008.
We attach equal importance to economic and social goals.
This explains our strong focus on environmental
protection, plant process safety (for both employees and
neighbors), occupational safety, and product safety (for
customers and end users).
The UN’s Global Compact is another guideline for our
actions. We joined the initiative in 2006. Member
companies commit to implementing the Global Compact’s
ten principles, which are derived from the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work, and the Rio Declaration on Environment
and Development. We observe the Global Compact’s ten
principles, which address social and environmental
standards, anticorruption and the protection of human
rights (see Progress Report).

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Human Rights
Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the
protection of internationally proclaimed human rights
within their sphere of influence, and
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in
human rights abuses.

Labor Standards
Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of
association and the effective recognition of the right to
collective bargaining,
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and
compulsory labor,
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor, and
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect
of employment and occupation.

Environmental Protection
Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary
approach to environmental challenges,
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote
environmental responsibility, and
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion
of environmentally friendly technologies.

Anti-Corruption
Principle 10: businesses should work against
corruption in all its forms, including extortion and
bribery.
New regulations such as the UK’s Modern Slavery Act and
Germany’s National Action Plan on Business and Human
Rights show that respect for human rights continues to be
an important social issue. As a company, we are going to
identify and evaluate the risks of our business activities
even more systematically to take greater account of them
in our decision-making processes.

21

Management - Organization

Organization
Management Structures
GRI 102-18, GRI 102-19, GRI 102-20

several organizational sectors and legal entities. These
committees ensure that corporate strategies are
implemented groupwide.

Wacker Chemie AG’s four-member Executive Board
oversees the Group’s strategies, resources, infrastructure
and organizational structure. Dr. Rudolf Staudigl is the
Board’s President and CEO. Other members are
Dr. Christian Hartel, Dr. Tobias Ohler and Auguste Willems.

The Corporate Leadership Team (CLT), for example,
deliberates on strategically important processes, potential
market or competitor developments, and key special
topics not directly related to daily operations. The CLT
comprises the entire Executive Board, business-division
presidents and corporate-department heads.

An Executive Board Meeting is WACKER’s highest
decision-making authority. Below the Executive Board,
there are various committees whose membership spans

The main committees for environment, health, safety and
product safety are the annual Corporate Environment,
Health and Safety (EHS) Meetings and EHS Strategy

Coordinating Sustainability at WACKER

Committees/Meetings with Speciﬁc Executive Board Members

22

Executive Board Meeting

Corporate Leadership Team

Corporate EHS1 Meeting

EHS Strategy Meeting

Health Promotion Steering
Committee

R&D Projects Conference2

Supply Chain Conference

WOS3 Conference

Corporate or Other Departments

Group Innovation Meeting

Functions

Corporate Sustainability

Human Resources

Group Compliance Officer

Regional Compliance Officers

Research & Development

Executive Personnel

Group Coordinator for the
Environment

Group Coordinator for Health

Group Safety Coordinator

Group Coordinator for Product
Safety

Group Coordinator for Hazardous
Goods

Group Coordinator for Export
Controls

Legal Officers and
Representatives

Sustainability Officers

IMS4 Coordinators

Divisional R&D

1

Environment, Health, Safety
2
Research & Development
3
WACKER Operating System
4
Integrated Management System

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Management - Organization

Meetings, led by the Executive Board member responsible
for EHS & PS. Personnel policies are dealt with monthly
in the HR Strategy Meeting while employee health is
addressed once a year by the Health Promotion Steering
Committee – both are chaired by WACKER’s personnel
director. The Supply Chain Conference and the WOS
Conference focus on the Group’s productivity projects and
goals and are led by the Executive Board member
responsible for Corporate Engineering. The Group
Innovation Meeting and the R&D Projects Conference
cover innovation strategies and projects.
Environmental, health and safety officers meet for an
international EHS & PS Conference once a year. Here,
participants exchange experiences and discuss the
progress of sustainability-related topics that apply
groupwide. EHS & PS management focused on the
Americas in 2015 and on Europe in 2016. Related activities
involved an increasing number of on-site inspections at our
various plants.
The Corporate Sustainability department oversees the
implementation of WACKER’s voluntary commitments
under Responsible Care® and the Global Compact and
coordinates our sustainability activities worldwide.

Personnel Responsibility
GRI 102-19

Our compliance organization focuses on compliance with
legal requirements and internal company regulations. The
Group compliance officer supervises and guides a network
of regional compliance officers.
Responsibility for the key areas of environment, health and
safety, export control, hazardous materials, and product
stewardship rests with the Group coordinators. In this
capacity, they report directly to the WACKER Executive
Board, and define groupwide standards in the form of
goals and processes. These standards are to be followed
by every corporate sector and site worldwide. Alongside
the Group coordinators, WACKER has legally mandated
officers for managing specific areas in the respective
regions (for example, in Germany, there are incidents
officers and liaison officers for severely disabled staff).
Workplace and plant safety are of vital importance at
WACKER. This is why we define safety goals in the annual
performance reviews together with Executive Personnel
and management employees in Germany. They are
mandatory personal goals, especially for executives in

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

production-related areas. They also influence the final
performance evaluation.

Management Systems
We control operational processes via our integrated
management system (IMS). The system describes
workflows and responsibilities, and stipulates uniform
standards throughout the Group for quality, environmental
protection, energy, occupational health and safety, and
plant safety. It is based on customer demands, statutory
regulations, our own sustainable business principles, and
national and international standards.
We have our Group management system evaluated by
an international certification organization in accordance
with ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environmental
protection) standards, and our German sites as per ISO
50001 (energy). At Siltronic, every site is certified to ISO/
TS 16949 (quality/automotive industry), ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety), due to its
specific processes and customer requirements.
Our Group certification ensures that customer-driven
specifications and our corporate standards are
implemented at all WACKER sites. Almost all WACKER
production sites are included in the ISO 9001 and ISO
14001 Group certificates. Exceptions are Wacker Química
do Brasil Ltda., the Kolkata plant belonging to Wacker
Metroark Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., India, and the Tsukuba site
of Wacker Asahi Kasei Silicone Co. Ltd., Japan. All these
sites have corresponding individual certificates. After
commissioning in 2016, the new plant in Charleston, USA,
was also incorporated into the ISO 9001 Group certificate.
As of 2012, all German sites belonging to Wacker Chemie
AG, Siltronic AG and Alzwerke GmbH have been certified
to ISO 50001 (energy management systems). The
silicone-producing sites in Jandira (Brazil), Zhangjiagang
(China) and Kolkata (India) are certified to the ISO 22716
standard for the cosmetics industry.
We align our processes and standards relating to
occupational health and safety with the international
OHSAS 18001 standard. Alongside Siltronic, our Jandira
(Brazil) and Jincheon (South Korea) sites have an OHSAS
certificate.

Controlling Instruments
At WACKER, twenty-one groupwide regulations govern
topics of overall significance for the company. They
concern management, organization and collaboration, law
and compliance, strategy and business processes as well

23

Management - Organization

as financing, controlling, accounting and taxes. Numerous
other controlled documents regulate processes for
environmental and health protection, plant and workplace
safety, and product safety, on a Group, regional and
site-specific level.
We use the WACKER® Eco Assessment Tool to
systematically evaluate the risks and opportunities of our
product line from an environmental perspective. We take
account of material, water and energy consumption, as
well as ecotoxicity, over the entire product life cycle.
Measuring the Group’s corporate carbon footprint is an
important tool for improving climate protection. That’s why
we determine not only our direct greenhouse gas
emissions (as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1) and
indirect emissions from bought-in energy (Scope 2), but
also our Scope 3 emissions. These include emissions
generated along the supply chain, e.g. by suppliers or
through waste disposal and the transportation of products.
In 2015, we added another Scope 3 category and further
refined our calculation methodology. In the period under
review, we forwarded these emissions data to the Carbon
Disclosure Project (CDP).

24

the entire supply chain via its Wacker Operating System
(WOS) program. Our goal is to continue reducing specific
operating costs every year. WOS results are regularly
reported to the Executive Board.
2015 and 2016 saw the implementation of more than 1,000
projects at our operational business and corporate
departments. Some 700 of these concerned operations,
with the corporate departments accounting for 300. The
focus of WOS was on improving:
Plant utilization levels
Specific energy consumption
Raw-material yields
Labor productivity
Specific maintenance costs, and reducing third-party
contracting
Over the two-year reporting period, labor productivity
improved by more than 6 percent across all WACKER
plants. Specific energy consumption fell within operations
by an average of just under 3 percent and specific
maintenance costs dropped by around 7 percent. The
WOS measures implemented over this two-year period
yielded a business value contribution of some €260 million.

In 2015, groupwide implementation of our new IT system
for sustainability reporting (SPIRIT) was completed,
thereby replacing various individual systems. We use this
software to record environmental and safety-related
events, for example, and to manage internal and external
Integrated Management System (IMS) audits.

Over the past two years, our WOS Academy (founded in
2009) trained just under 200 employees in the application
of new productivity methods, such as Six Sigma. In
addition to this training, we carried out projects aimed at
reducing specific costs.

Productivity Programs

Idea Management

High productivity throughout the supply chain is a key to
WACKER’s success. WACKER boosts productivity along

The ideas submitted by WACKER’s employees help it to
do things better and stay competitive. In 2016, the number

Integrated Management-System Standards

Integrated Management System (IMS)

Standards

ISO 9001
quality

ISO 14001
environmental protection

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

ISO 50001
energy

OHSAS 18001
occupational health and safety

Management - Organization

of improvement suggestions submitted was up 6 percent
year over year. The participation rate (number of submitters
per 100 employees) and the total benefit rose as well.
We revised the idea management system in the reporting
period, and streamlined the processes for handling ideas.
Employees can use the new system not only to submit
ideas, but also to quickly and easily report safety-critical
situations.
Since 1975, WACKER employees have submitted around
145,000 improvement suggestions. Over half of these –
79,000 suggestions – have been implemented, leading to
company savings of €147 million. Submitters have
received a total of €34 million in bonuses.
To maximize the benefits from ideas, WACKER has
interlinked the Employee Suggestion Program, the Wacker
Operating System (WOS) and Innovation Management.
Idea Management

Number of improvement suggestions

2016

2015

2014

7,885

7,429

7,672

Total benefit (€ million)

7.0

6.8

8.4

Participation rate1 (%)

32

29

30

1

Submitters per 100 employees

Risk and Compliance Management
GRI 102-17, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 205-1, GRI 205-2,
GRI 205-3, GRI 206-1, GRI 307-1, GRI 412-1, GRI 416-2, GRI 418-1,
GRI 419-1

Managing Corporate Risks
Risk and compliance management is an integral part of
corporate management at WACKER. As a globally active
company, WACKER is exposed to numerous risks directly
attributable to our operational activities. Starting from an
acceptable level of overall risk, the Executive Board
decides which risks we should take to utilize opportunities
available to the company. The goal of risk management at
WACKER is to identify risks as early as possible, evaluate

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

them adequately, and take appropriate steps to reduce
them. We define risks as internal and external events that
may have a negative effect on the attainment of our targets
and forecasts.
As a specialty-chemical company, we have a particular
responsibility to ensure plant safety and to protect health
and the environment. All our production sites have
coordinators who manage plant and workplace safety,
alongside health and environmental protection. Our risk
management complies with legal requirements and is a
component in all our decisions and business processes.
The Executive and Supervisory Boards are regularly
informed about the current risk status in the Group and at
each business division.
WACKER follows the “Three Lines of Defense” model to
effectively manage corporate risks and ensure compliance
with legal provisions and the ethical principles of corporate
management.
The first line of defense is centered on operational
management, which involves coordinating, monitoring
and managing the risks that arise. It also includes the
establishment of functioning internal control systems
within the individual operational units.
The second line of defense is formed by risk and
compliance
management.
Risk
management
systematically tracks the main risks associated with
the operational units and provides the Executive Board
with corresponding reports. Compliance management
ensures that the ethical principles of corporate
management are observed. It identifies the relevant
legal requirements and amendments, forwards them
to all affected corporate units and holds courses on
compliance for employees.
The third line of defense is provided by the internal
auditing department, which acts as an independent
monitoring body for the Executive Board. This
department conducts audits at regular intervals to
review the risk management in place at the various
corporate units and to check whether the internal
control systems run by the operational units are
effective. Auditing also liaises with Compliance
Management,
for
example
if
anti-corruption
investigations are held or related measures are taken.

25

Management - Organization

“Three Lines of Defense” Model

Supervisory Board

First line of defense

Second line of defense

Third line of defense

Internal control systems

Risk management

Corporate Auditing

Operational management

Compliance management

Direct coordination
and monitoring

Policy on identifying
specific risks
Training courses

Risk management

Auditors

Executive Board

Audits

Risk monitoring

Number of risks

26

Compliance Management
WACKER’s ethical principles of corporate management
exceed legal requirements. They are summarized in our
Code of Conduct. All WACKER employees are required to
follow this code. The compliance management department
is responsible for ensuring that these principles and all
related legal provisions are observed throughout the
company. Training courses on compliance raise
employees’ awareness of the relevant risks and convey
binding rules of behavior for daily work routines. These
aspects are covered by WACKER’s compliance regulation.
Employees are instructed to inform their supervisors, the
compliance officers, the employee council or their
designated HR contacts of any violations they notice.
WACKER Greater China has a compliance hotline that
enables employees and business partners to report any
breaches anonymously. Furthermore, every year,
employees in the region must sign a declaration regarding
proper conduct.
The Group’s compliance officers are responsible for
implementing the compliance rules and regulations, and
are on hand to advise employees on all matters relating
to compliance. The WACKER Group has 23 compliance
officers around the world: in Germany, the USA, China,
Taiwan, Japan, India, South Korea, Brazil, Mexico,
Singapore, Russia, Norway and the United Arab Emirates.
Compliance issues arising in countries not listed here are

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

handled in Germany by the chief compliance officer. The
chief compliance officer reports to WACKER’s president &
CEO.
Prevention is a key aspect of the work of compliance
officers. They train, inform and advise employees and
management on, for example, anti-corruption strategies
and measures. In 2016, all the compliance officers met
to discuss how to harmonize WACKER’s global approach
to combating legal infringements. The prevention of
cybercrime was a further point of focus, as it had been in
2015. For example, a dedicated campaign was launched
to raise employee awareness of the risks of cybercrime.
In 2015 and 2016, no major infringements of compliance
were identified, where the effect on earnings would exceed
€5 million.
WACKER’s compliance programs are designed to prevent
misconduct, minimize the repercussions of misconduct,
and – in accordance with the UN’s Global Compact –
identify any cases of corruption or other legal
infringements. To promote compliance, we use such
organizational methods as the separation of responsibility
and our dual-control policy. Separation of responsibility
makes it impossible for any one employee to
single-handedly carry out transactions involving payments.
The purchasing unit is thus quite distinct from the ordering

Management - Organization

unit. Dual control ensures that every critical transaction is
checked by a second person.
Data Protection
The way in which we gather and process personal data
relating to all employees and external parties with whom
we are in contact complies with data protection regulations
with the sole aim of meeting the intended purposes.
Internal Auditing
On behalf of the Executive Board, Corporate Auditing
mainly performs regular, process-specific reviews of all
relevant functions and corporate units, placing its focus on
internal control systems. Audit topics are selected using
a risk-driven approach. This takes account of risk
management reporting, as well as the reports and
information provided by the corporate departments,
business divisions and larger joint ventures/associates.
The Executive Board supplements and approves the
auditing schedule, which is discussed by the Audit
Committee as well. If necessary, the schedule is flexibly
adjusted during the year to take account of changes in
underlying conditions. Processes and areas that constitute
a high risk in terms of corruption or legal non-compliance
are scrutinized more frequently by the auditors. Criteria for
the risk assessment include:
Country classified as having a high risk of corruption
High possible risk of damage (financial or
reputation-related)
Compliance issue (suspected cases)
Previous audit revealed substantial need for action, and
Legal obligation to have regular audits
For capital-intensive engineering activities (e.g. project
engineering and maintenance), we employ specially
qualified industrial personnel as auditors.
In the period under review, auditing focused on:
Settlement of investment measures
Adherence to environmental legislation in the USA, and
Sales commissions and discounting, including how
they are treated in accounting
Whenever cross-functional business-process audits were
conducted at subsidiaries, the checks included aspects of
plant safety, such as whether safety training or technical
inspections were held. During the reporting period, no
major complaints about the proper functioning of the
control systems came to light as regards the previously
mentioned reporting threshold, where the effect on
earnings would exceed €5 million.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Any process-optimization measures derived from the
audits are implemented and systematically monitored by
the auditing department. It provides the Executive Board
and Audit Committee with regular reports on the results
and implementation status of the various measures.
Employees involved in import and export processes must
complete online training on export control every two years.
Individuals working in particularly sensitive jobs, such as
managing directors of regional subsidiaries and export
control representatives, must complete a refresher course
every year. Export control is based on national and
international laws and aims to prevent the spread of
weapons of mass destruction, combat international
terrorism and uphold human rights. In this regard, it is
important to inspect not only the item to be exported, but
also the country of destination, the customer and the end
use of the products.
WACKER’s corporate culture is characterized by mutual
respect and trust. However, inappropriate behavior on the
part of individual employees can never be eliminated. In
these cases, we rely on our internal risk assessments.
According to Transparency International’s Corruption
Perceptions Index (CPI), WACKER is predominantly active
in countries that have a low or very low risk of corruption.

27

Management - Organization

Compliance Cases

Level of key fines1 and number of
non-monetary penalties for
non-compliance with requirements of
environmental legislation

2016

2015

2014

‒

‒

–

Number of organizational units
subjected to corruption audit

31

29

29

Legal entities subjected to corruption
audit (%)

22

23

20

Employees2 trained in corruption
prevention (%)

50

50

50

Written warnings

9

11

18

Termination of employment
contract

5

4

8

Number of complaints about
anticompetitive behavior, violation
of antitrust or monopolies
legislation

‒

‒

‒

Level of key fines1 and number of
non-monetary penalties for
breaches of legal requirements

‒

‒

‒

Level of key fines1 for breaches of
legal requirements relating to the
supply and use of products and
services

‒

‒

‒

Measures3 taken in response to
violation of laws, codes and
standards

28
1

Level of key fines: starting at €10,000

2

Employees who have contact with external business partners
receive training every two years. That’s around 50 percent of all
WACKER employees.

3

WACKER Germany only

Sales Shares as a Function of Corruption Risk as per Transparency International1

2016 Group Sales in Percent
0
Very high risk CPI ≤ 20

10

20

30

27.1
16.2

Low risk 80 ≥ CPI > 60
Very low risk CPI > 80
1

50

0.1

High risk 40 ≥ CPI > 20
Medium risk 60 ≥ CPI > 40

40

35.2
21.4

Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) ranks countries according to the level of corruption perceived in the public
sector. The categories in this graph were compiled independently.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

60

Management - Organization

Customer Management
GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

WACKER provides products and services that benefit its
customers. Satisfied customers are the basis of our
success. To steadily increase their satisfaction, we are
in constant dialogue with not only customers, but also
suppliers and logistics providers.
SMART is the name of our customer management system
that helps us maintain our customer relationships. SMART
contains customer profiles and all other relevant
information about customers. The system supports Sales,
for example, with correspondence and with complaints
processing. Every complaint is entered into SMART and
systematically tracked until our final reply has been sent to
the customer. Standardized measures, some of which are
initiated automatically, ensure that the affected customer
and associated team are always kept up to date on the
complaint status. This helps us to enhance processes, and
stops errors from recurring.
WACKER offers existing and prospective customers a
further service: the WACKER Infoline. Specialists provide
advice on products and related applications by phone or
email. If someone asks a question, they get initial feedback
within eight hours and a detailed answer within 48 hours.
We regularly solicit feedback from our customers about
the quality of our products and services. WACKER
POLYSILICON, for example, conducts annual customer
surveys. Siltronic analyzes the supplier evaluations which
its major customers conduct each year. The surveys and
comparative analyses have repeatedly confirmed
WACKER’s excellent reputation over the years.
WACKER customers can be categorized into three groups:
global key accounts, customers, and distributors. Global
key accounts are customers of special strategic
significance for WACKER and those generating high sales
levels. WACKER currently has 40 global key accounts,
with which we generated around 25 percent of our 2016
revenue in the chemical divisions – WACKER SILICONES,
WACKER POLYMERS and WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS.
Over 55 percent of our chemical-related revenue was from
our approximately 8,000 other active customer
relationships and around 20 percent from distributors.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Awards and Prizes
WACKER has supplied customers with high-quality
products and outstanding services for many years.
Customer satisfaction is the cornerstone of our success
and is reflected in the customer awards we have received.
Quality Awards
Award

Recipient

Sponsor

Company of the Year 2015

Wacker
Chemie AG

ICIS Chemical
Business

Technical Innovation of the Year
2015: silicone fluid emulsion
SILRES® BS 5137

Wacker
Chemie AG

Global Insulation
Conference and
Exhibition

Technology Innovation Award
2015: SILRES® MSE 100

WACKER
Greater China

Ringier

Certificate of Excellence 2015 for WACKER
Opportunity Seeking
India

Marico

Quality Award 2016

Siltronic
Singapore

SSMC

Best Partner Award 2016

Siltronic AG

Samsung

Best Supplier Award 2016
& 2015

Siltronic AG

Infineon

Preferred Quality
Supplier 2016 & 2015

Siltronic AG

Intel

Supplier of the Year 2015

Siltronic AG

STMicroelectronics

Supplier of the Year 2015

Siltronic
Corporation

Fairchild
Semiconductors

Environmental protection is a core component of all
processes at WACKER. Our commitment is reflected in the
awards we’ve received from authorities and organizations
as well as customers.

29

Management - Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

Environmental & Corporate Social Responsibility Awards

30

Award

Recipient

Sponsor

Gold Sustainability at Work
Certification 2016

Siltronic
Corporation

Bureau of
Sustainability,
City of
Portland

Gold Compliance Award 2016 for
the Waste Water Treatment Plant

Siltronic
Corporation

City of
Portland

Partner to Win Award 2016 for
distinct contribution to the
Sustainable Living Plan

Wacker
Chemie AG

Unilever

GreenFleet® Award 2015

Wacker
Chemie AG

TÜV Süd

Responsible Care® Award 2015

Wacker
Chemie AG

German
Chemical
Industry
Association

Responsible Care® Chairman Award
2015

WACKER
Greater China

Association of
International
Chemical
Manufacturers
(AICM)

Advanced Unit for Safe Production
and Environmental Protection 2015

WACKER
Greater China

Zhangjiagang
Free Trade
Zone
Production
Safety
Committee

Corporate Social Responsible Care® WACKER
Best Practice Award 2015
Greater China

Shanghai
Xuhui District
Government

Shanghai Magnolia Silver
Award 2016

WACKER
Greater China

Shanghai
Municipal
Government

Most Socially Responsible
Company 2016

WACKER
Greater China

China
Petroleum
and Chemical
Industry
Federation
(CPCIF)

Dialogue and Materiality
Analysis
Communication with Stakeholders
GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44

Companies must have the consent and support of society.
We want to maintain regular and open dialogue with all
stakeholders. This is one of our business principles. We
believe that dialogue offers us an opportunity to prepare
for new challenges promptly, avoid risks and realize our full
potential.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

WACKER constantly communicates with a number of
stakeholder groups throughout the world: employees,
customers, suppliers, analysts, investors, journalists,
scientists, neighbors and politicians, as well as
representatives from NGOs, authorities and associations.
We conduct this dialogue in many ways – through the
outreach activities of WACKER’s various management
levels, sites and departments. The focus is always on
face-to-face discussions, i.e. on direct contact. What’s
more, we communicate with stakeholders through:

Management - Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

Surveys (e.g. on workplace safety, sustainability and
reputation)
Publications (annual report, press releases, employee
newspaper, etc.)
Special events (open-house days, supplier days,
investor roadshows, management events, etc.)
Tradeshows, and
Committee work and presentations

procurement of goods and services initiative “Together for
Sustainability” (TfS), which WACKER has joined. The
auditors detected no deviations during the inspections.

A novel series of events launched in 2016 has seen
WACKER taking a new approach to neighborhood
communication at its largest site in Burghausen: the
WACKER WISSENSFORUM (knowledge forum) is aimed at
local residents who want to find out more about current
company issues relating to science, technology and
environmental protection. Once a quarter, the open
information series offers talks on scientific trends,
pioneering technologies, and developments with a local
political impact. So far, these have covered battery
research at WACKER, repair of the Alz canal, the
significance of polymer chemistry, and sustainability.

For years, WACKER has been regularly conducting surveys
with its stakeholders as part of its sustainability reporting.
In 2016, we included our top management in the
stakeholder survey for the first time. We used the survey to
determine which sustainability topics stakeholders and top
managers consider to be important for WACKER and how
they rate our sustainability efforts. The survey results led to
a materiality analysis. This serves as a basis for specifying
the contents of the sustainability report and reviewing and
updating our sustainability strategy.

Another new feature is our SustainaTalk® dialogue
platform. Employees can access the groupwide intranet to
obtain information on practical sustainability topics. The
platform offers live events, communication material and
case studies focusing on social and ecological aspects,
sustainability management, communication, stakeholder
dialogue and our IT system for sustainability reporting
(SPIRIT).
WACKER has been participating in the sustainability
assessments of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since
2007. In 2016, the company’s performance profile was
rated B (on a scale from A to D) in CDP’s annual
sustainability ratings.
In response to requests from two key customers, WACKER
underwent social audits during the reporting period. In
2016, the Burghausen and Nünchritz sites in Germany and
the Adrian site in the USA were inspected. The
Zhangjiagang (China), Amtala (India) and Jandira (Brazil)
sites had themselves inspected by external auditors in
2015. The auditors asked employees about compliance
regarding
working
hours,
collective-bargaining
agreements, company agreements and protection
standards. Further topics included supplier management,
compliance rules, environmental standards and energy
supplies at the plants. Certain improvement suggestions
were made by the inspectors for the Group’s sites outside
Germany. For example, setting up a whistle-blower hotline
at the Adrian site, so that employees can report violations
anonymously. The Burghausen site was also audited
according to the chemical industry’s responsible

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Sustainability Survey
GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47

13 top managers participated in the online survey,
including the Executive Board and Group Coordinators for
the following key aspects of sustainability:
Environmental issues
Safety
Sustainability
Energy management
Health
Product safety
Hazardous goods
Export control
Personnel
Compliance management
205 stakeholders (individuals with links to our company)
also completed the online questionnaire. The survey was
conducted in Germany, China and the USA among other
countries. It included analysts, customers, suppliers,
employees and politicians, as well as representatives from
authorities and NGOs.
Key Sustainability Topics
Top managers rated 25 out of 34 topics as important, while
stakeholders rated 26 of them as important. Our threshold
value for key topics, about which we provide information
in this report, was at least 4.00 points (for both survey
groups) on a scale of 1.00 (very low) to 5.00 (very high). The
top three topics as seen by the company and stakeholders
with a value of 4.51 or higher are compliance, product
safety and plant safety. These are followed by topics that
are rated 4.51 or higher by either top management or
the stakeholders: occupational health and safety, energy,

31

Management - Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

sustainable products, transport safety, fair business
practices, competitiveness, and value trends. For reasons
of continuity, we continue to report to a limited extent

on topics that were rated by top managers and/or
stakeholders as being of less relevance.

Materiality Analysis (Results of the Stakeholder Survey Held in 2016)

Rating the Relevance of Sustainability Topics at WACKER
5.0

Compliance

Product safety
Reducing Emissions
Voluntary Commitment to Responsible Care

®

Plant Safety

Risk Management

Relevant from the viewpoint of stakeholders

4.5

32

4.0

Transport Safety

Governance

Implementation of Fair Business Practices

Implementation of Fair Business Practices
Sustainable Products and
Product Innovations

Fair Working Conditions and Occupational Safety

Competitiveness and
Value Trends

Sparing use of Water Resources
Vocational Training
Transport Routes

Occupational Safety and
Employee Health

Resource
Conservation

Engagement for
Environmental Protection

Energy
Good Leadership

Open Dialogue with Society

Advanced Training
Waste Reduction and Proper Disposal

Job Creation and Retention
Attracting and Retaining Employees
Commitment to
Social Responsibility

Diversity Management / Equal Opportunity

Biodiversity
Work in Industrial Associations / Lobbying
Employee Commitment
Transparency

Co-Determination within Company
Reducing Land Use

Relevant from the viewpoint of top management

3.5
3.0

3.5
Ecology

Social Performance

4.0
Product Stewardship

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Corporate Management and the Economy

4.5

5.0
Supply Chain

Management - Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

Materiality Analysis – in the form of a table
Importance for Top Management
Action Areas

Important

Very important

Importance for Stakeholders
Important

Very important

Environmental Aspects
Plant Safety

x

Energy

x

x
x

Waste Reduction and Proper Disposal

x

x

Reducing Emissions

x

x

Resource Conservation

x

x

Sparing Use of Water Resources

x

x

Social Performance
Occupational Safety and Employee Health

x

x

Good Leadership

x

x

Advanced Training

x

x

Attracting and Retaining Employees

x

x

Vocational Training

x

x

Job Creation and Retention

x

Product Stewardship
Product safety

x

Sustainable Products and Product Innovations

x

x

Transport Safety

x

x

Transport Routes

x

x

33

Corporate Management and the Economy
Compliance

x

Implementation of Fair Business Practices

x

x

x

x

Competitiveness and Value Trends

x

Risk Management

x

x

Voluntary Commitment to Responsible Care®

x

x

Governance

x

x

Work in Industrial Associations / Lobbying

x

Open Dialogue with Society

x

x

Implementation of Fair Business Practices

x

x

Engagement for Environmental Protection

x

x

Fair Working Conditions and Occupational Safety

x

x

Supply Chain

Sustainability Performance
Evaluation of the online questionnaires revealed that top
management
and
stakeholders
rate
WACKER’s
sustainability efforts as good to very good. Top managers
consider our performance in the fields of occupational
health and safety, compliance, plant and product safety,
as well as creation and retention of jobs to be excellent
(values of 4.51 or higher on a scale of 1.00 for “very
poor” to 5.00 “very good”). According to stakeholders,
WACKER performs best in the areas of occupational health
and safety.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Both groups give performance in the supply chain a low
mid-range rating. Commitment to diversity and inclusion
in the workforce and to equal opportunity is considered
good. WACKER’s sustainability performance gets a good
overall rating from analysts and employees, and a very
good one from all other stakeholders. Top managers,
analysts and employees give a comparatively lower rating
to performance in relation to social topics. In all regions,
stakeholders consider the company’s sustainability
performance to be very good. In Asia, environmental
performance, in particular, is rated as excellent.

Management - Dialogue and Materiality Analysis

Top management and stakeholders see room
improvement in the area of product stewardship.

for

Rating Sustainability Performance

0

1

2

3

4

5

4.2

Survey 2016 1
Survey 2014 2

3.9

Survey 2012 3

3.9

1.00 = very poor to 5.00 = very good
1 2016: 205 participants
2 2014: 224 participants
3 2012: 201 participants

34

Favored Forms of Dialogue
The stakeholder survey also asked participants which
platforms they would prefer as a means of dialogue with
WACKER about sustainability issues. 63 percent of
participants prefer dialogue through personal contact and
round-table discussions. Around half the stakeholders
would like to be informed via WACKER’s website and the
sustainability report, which can be downloaded as a PDF
online.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

A key challenge raised in the 2012 and 2014 stakeholder
surveys was sustainable working conditions within the
supply chain. In the 2016 survey, our sustainability
performance in the supply chain got a medium rating. This
is the reason why, during the period under review, we had
intensified our work on this topic.

Management - Goals and Outlook

Goals and Outlook
Management
STATUS OF GOALS FOR 2013/2014
Replace all existing IT tools for incident, key-figure and
inspection management with our SPIRIT sustainability
platform
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: Goal was achieved. In 2015,
groupwide implementation of our new IT system for
sustainability reporting (SPIRIT) was completed,
thereby replacing various individual systems. We use
this software to record environmental and safety-related
events, for example, and to manage internal and
external Integrated Management System (IMS) audits.
NEW GOALS
Integrated management system: certification of the
Charleston site, USA, to the ISO 14001 environmental
standard. Recertification of all sites according to the
new specifications of the ISO 9001:2015 and ISO
14001:2015 standards.
Corporate entity: Charleston site (USA) and groupwide
Deadline: 2017
FUTURE TOPICS
Regional Sustainability-Management Focus
The regional focus of WACKER’s sustainability
management activities will be on Asia in 2017. Our
focus will involve an inspection of individual sites, in
China and India among others, with regard to EHS. In
2018, the focus will be on the Americas.

Supply chain
STATUS OF GOALS FOR 2013/2014
Assess the sustainability performance of our 400
main suppliers as part of the “Together for
Sustainability” (TfS) initiative
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2016
Implementation status: Goal was achieved. By the
end of 2016, more than 490 WACKER suppliers had
been evaluated as part of TfS assessments and
audits.

NEW GOALS
Assess the sustainability performance of our main
suppliers, which cover at least 70 percent of our
procurement volume, as part of the “Together for
Sustainability” (TfS) initiative
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2020
FUTURE TOPICS
New Category for Supplier Awards
“Sustainability” will be a fixed category at our
annual awards for top suppliers from 2017 on.
Focal Points of TfS Supplier Evaluations:
In 2017, the main focus of the TfS supplier
evaluations is on human rights and on checking
results obtained so far and introducing improvement
measures. In addition, further suppliers, especially
from China and the USA, will be included in the
evaluations.

Production
GRI 103-2

STATUS OF GOALS FOR 2013/2014
Protect rivers and other surface water even better
against harmful substance escapes. This includes a
groupwide study to identify potential risks and take
countermeasures. Develop additional measures as
part of our plants’ safety plans to increase the
protection further.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: Fulfilled; this goal will
continue to be a focal point of our safety plans.
LONG-TERM GOALS
Lower our average specific energy consumption
(amount of energy per net production volume) by 50
percent, with 2007 as the base year.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2022
Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 15 percent per
metric ton of net production – while maintaining a
comparable product portfolio – from 2012 onward.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2022

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

35

Management - Goals and Outlook

Reduce specific dust emissions (per metric ton of
product) by 50 percent, with 2012 as the base year.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2022
Reduce specific emissions of relevant volatile
organic compounds (VOCs per metric ton of
product) by 25 percent, with 2012 as the base year.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2022
NEW GOAL
No incidents with relevant environmental inputs
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: Annual
FUTURE TOPICS
Environmental Protection: China Initiative
As a member of the AICM (Association of
International Chemical Manufacturers), we support
the Nanjing Chemical Industry Park
(NCIP) (Chinese-language version only) in
establishing an environmental-protection working
group.

36

Products
FUTURE TOPICS
Product Safety
We are currently preparing a further 110 substance
dossiers for the third REACH stage, which runs until
mid-2018.
Ecological Compatibility
WACKER is continuing to develop its environmental
product assessments throughout the Group, which
we use for evaluating the sustainability performance
of our key product lines.
Research and Development
The Group’s R&D work remains focused on key
strategic projects. In 2017, WACKER plans to
allocate 11 percent (2016: 15 percent) of its R&D
budget to these projects. Our R&D work will
prioritize the highly promising fields of energy,
consumer care, biotechnology, construction
applications and semiconductors, with particular
emphasis on energy storage and renewable energy
generation.

Safety
STATUS OF GOALS FOR 2013/2014
Reduce number of safety and environmentally

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

relevant incidents per million hours worked by 10
percent (referenced to 2014)
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: The number of safety and
environmentally relevant incidents per million hours
worked fell to 0.7 at Burghausen, our largest site,
which meant that the goal set for 2015 had been
reached. Groupwide, however, the frequency of
such incidents rose to 1.2 during the same period.
The increase was mainly due to the improved way in
which safety and environmentally relevant incidents
are recorded by our new sustainability reporting IT
system (SPIRIT).
NEW GOALS
Reduce number of safety and environmentally
relevant incidents per million hours worked to below
0.7
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2020

Employees
STATUS OF GOALS FOR 2013/2014
With an inter-site employee survey, WACKER aims
to identify its organization’s strengths and
improvement potential. Furthermore, the instrument
is to support managerial employees in improving
the performance within their areas of responsibility.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: The goal was achieved. The
evaluation of all German site results showed that
WACKER employees identify with their employer to
a large degree.
Reduce accident rate (number of accidents with lost
workdays per million hours worked) from 4.7 to 2.0
(referenced to 2012)
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: The goal was not achieved.
After the accident rate fell to 2.6 in 2015, it rose
again to 3.0 in 2016.
“Health culture 2020” project: WACKER aims to
develop its corporate health culture further in order
to improve staff health and keep employees fit for
work.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: implementation from 2016 on, sustainable
improvements by 2020
Implementation status: The project made progress

Management - Goals and Outlook

in the period under review. It focuses on four main
areas: exercise, nutrition, state of health and
prevention. Employees can avail themselves of
programs relevant to each of these topics.
NEW GOALS
Reduce accident rate (number of accidents with lost
workdays per million hours worked) to at least 1.7
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2020
Reduce chemical accidents with missed workdays
to 0 and decrease chemical accidents with the
potential for missed workdays by 50 percent
compared to 2015
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2020
FUTURE TOPICS
Inter-Company Manager Program
Since 2017, we have been collaborating with BMW
and Munich Re to offer a new program to qualify
managerial employees: STEPP 2017 relates the
participants’ career development to their personal
plans for the future. The objective is to develop new
career prospects and strengthen individual
suitability for work.
New Variable Compensation Model
From 2018 on, WACKER will gradually be
introducing a new variable compensation system for
both standard-pay-scale and
above-standard-pay-scale employees in Germany.
The new system will supersede the existing variable
compensation components and replace them with a
standardized, market-oriented and transparent
methodology. It is comparable with the method of
calculating variable compensation for executive
personnel (OFKs). At the same time, we are
decoupling individual performance assessment from
variable compensation for employees on the
standard and above-standard pay scales.
Joining the “Equal Opportunity Charter”
In 2017, WACKER signed the “Equal Opportunity
Charter” initiated by IG BCE (the German mining,
chemical and energy labor union). By joining this
initiative, signatories underscore their commitment
to advancing equal opportunity within their area of
responsibility. The areas in which WACKER has
already shown its commitment by means of specific
measures include life-cycle-oriented working-time

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

models, the promotion of women in managerial
positions, and networks for women.
Measures Relating to Demographic Change
From 2017 on, WACKER is introducing a range of
measures relating to demographic change:
All employees can apply for a week’s family leave
once a year for the youngest child under eight
years of age. Employees receive paid leave for
this time.
Preventive checkups that we currently offer to
third-level management employees over 45
years of age (“FK3 checkups”) will be made
available to standard-pay-scale employees.
Employees over 35 years of age can participate
in a health week. This is held outside the
company and offers advice on exercise, nutrition
and relaxation.
Occupational Safety Programs on Personal Mobility
and Disconnecting Power
Due to the high number of personal-mobility
accidents, caused, for example, by tripping,
slipping or falling, we are launching the “Safe
Personal Mobility” program in 2017. Through this
program, we aim to inform our employees in
Germany about this topic and raise their awareness.
It is complemented by site-traffic behavior checks.
In 2017, in order to avoid chemical accidents at our
German sites, we are inspecting and improving
existing programs on the safe disconnection of
dangerous power sources prior to performing
maintenance or repair work.
Analysis of Mental Stress
From 2017 on, we also want to analyze and assess
job-related mental stress. This applies not only to
production-related activities, but also to office work.

Society
FUTURE TOPICS
WACKER CHEM2DO® Experiment Kit: Additional
Digital Training for Schools
Survey results from teachers who use CHEM2DO®
revealed that they see tremendous added value in
linking experiments and digital media. In response,
we are developing an offering in 2017 to include
practical application examples and particle models
in the form of animations.

37

Supply Chain
39

Processes and Tools

40

TfS Supplier Evaluation

Supply Chain

Supply Chain
GRI 102-9, GRI 102-15, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 204-1

In order to ensure sustainable business practices and
collaboration with the right suppliers, WACKER places
great emphasis on sustainable supply-chain management.
Our suppliers number about 11,500 (10,500 at Technical
Procurement & Logistics and 1,000 at Raw Materials &
Energy). Over 80 percent of our suppliers are
headquartered in a member state of the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The
OECD’s 35 member states are dedicated to the economic
and social wellbeing of people around the world.
Procurement Volumes by Country of Origin
%

2016

2015

2014

Germany

50

43

52

USA

19

27

18

Greater China1

10

12

10

2

2

2

South Korea
Brazil
Other countries

1

1

1

1

18

15

17

With production sites in Europe, the Americas and Asia,
our company collaborates with global suppliers.
Associated risks must be known, evaluated and controlled.
Potentially critical topics include working conditions,
ethical standards, safety standards (especially when
hazardous materials are being handled) and the use of
local resources (e.g. water use or energy consumption).
To limit such risks, we must ensure that we procure raw
materials and technical goods and services from
responsible suppliers.
That’s why WACKER joined the chemical industry’s
“Together for Sustainability” (TfS) initiative in January 2015.
Established in 2011, the organization aims at developing a
global program for responsible procurement of goods and
services and improving the ecological and social standards
of suppliers.

39

China, Hong Kong and Taiwan

Processes and Tools
GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 103-1

We expect our suppliers to observe the principles of the
UN’s Global Compact and the Responsible Care®
initiative. This constitutes part of our General Terms and
Conditions of Purchase. We also endeavor to contractually
obligate our main suppliers to participate in the
assessment and audit program of the TfS initiative.
We also expect our suppliers to have a management
system that meets the requirements of ISO 9001 (quality)
or comparable specifications such as GMP (Good
Manufacturing Practice). Furthermore, we require our
industrial suppliers to be certified to ISO 14001
(environmental protection).

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Our complaints management system and the annual
supplier evaluations allow us to collaborate with our
suppliers to continuously improve their performance.
Social and ecological criteria have been a fixed component
of supplier evaluations since 2016. In addition, WACKER’s
Technical Procurement & Logistics (TPL) honors the best
suppliers and shippers at the annual Supplier and Logistics
Days.
The systematic review of supplier risks plays a key role
at WACKER. It is used to correctly evaluate our supplier
relationships and adapt our procurement strategies
accordingly. In the reporting period, reviews were
conducted using our own supplier evaluations and,
increasingly, direct contact with our partners. Key criteria,
whose examination depends on the specific procurement

Supply Chain - TfS Supplier Evaluation

segment, include quality, risk in the event of non-delivery,
availability and dependency, intellectual property
protection and a supplier’s financial stability.
We determine and improve the sustainability performance
of our suppliers via TfS. 19 companies belong to the
chemical industry’s procurement initiative. TfS is a
non-profit organization. In 2015, the Ethical Corporation
rated the initiative as “highly commended” in the “Best
Supplier Engagement” category. In 2016, the Sustainable

Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) honored TfS with
the SPLC Market Transformation Award.
“Together for Sustainability” pursues the goal of making
supplier evaluations that have been determined by means
of assessments and audits accessible to all TfS members.
Sharing information on an internet-based platform offers
advantages to both sides: suppliers receive only one
request from TfS, rather than multiple ones from several
customers, while TfS members can access all inspection
results.

Sharing Supplier Evaluations through TfS

Suppliers

Customers

Suppliers

Customers

One
approach
for assessments and
audits

40
Image rights: TfS

TfS Supplier Evaluation
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2, GRI 407-1,
GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1, GRI 414-1, GRI 414-2

Suppliers are evaluated by two methods:
1. Assessments, based on a questionnaire issued by
EcoVadis
2. Audits, carried out by a TfS-certified auditing company
Assessments: The online questionnaires are based on the
principles of the UN’s Global Compact and the
Responsible Care® initiative. They are adapted to the size,
country of origin and sector of the supplier in question.
The assessments examine 21 criteria relating to the
environment, social aspects, ethics and the supply chain.
EcoVadis specialists analyze the information provided by
the suppliers, add their own research findings and
summarize the results in a scorecard. The scorecard gives
suggestions for a corrective action plan that can be agreed

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

on together with the supplier. The assessments evaluate
the sustainability performance of suppliers on a corporate
level.
Audits: External auditors visit individual supplier sites and
carry out on-site inspections. As a key part of the audits,
they ask the employees questions. It can thus be checked
whether the information provided by management is acted
on by the workforce. The audits cover 33 criteria relating
to management, the environment, health & safety, labor
and human rights, as well as governance. The auditors
summarize their findings in a detailed report, which also
contains a corrective action plan.
The results determine how long the assessments and
audits are valid for, which can range from one to three
years.
In 2015, we concentrated on providing TfS training to our
suppliers, encouraging them to join the program. We

Supply Chain - TfS Supplier Evaluation

predominantly selected suppliers from Germany – where
many of our suppliers are based – for the assessments and
audits. In 2016, we focused on increasing the number of
evaluated suppliers so as to ensure that a significant part
of our procurement volume is covered.
Like every TfS member, we are committed to arranging
20 sustainability audits per year. We accompany some of
the audits to check the quality of both the auditor and the
audit. We initiated 225 of the 491 assessments of WACKER
suppliers available in the EcoVadis database at the end of
2016.
TfS Assessments and Audits of WACKER Suppliers

TfS assessments1
TfS audits2

2016

2015

2014*

317

174

‒

21

3

‒

1

Initiated by WACKER and other TfS members

2

Initiated by WACKER

* WACKER only joined TfS in 2015

Our aim is for the sustainability performance of our main
suppliers, which cover at least 70 percent of our
procurement volume, to have been evaluated by TfS by
2020. By the end of 2016, we had reached around 50
percent.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

WACKER participated in setting up the TfS Supplier
Academy. Online training for suppliers is complemented by
events such as the TfS conferences in São Paulo, Brazil, in
2015 and in Mumbai, India, in 2016.
When we joined TfS, we trained all our purchasers in
sustainability topics for the first time. Since then, the
training has become an integral part of our orientation
program for new purchasers.
The sustainability evaluation determined via audits and
assessments feeds into our supplier evaluation and,
depending on the results, has different consequences. If
audits or assessments indicate that there is room for
improvement, we discuss this with the supplier when we
provide feedback on the general supplier evaluation. The
objective is to define a fast improvement program. We
will also conduct re-evaluations to check the program’s
effectiveness. Sustainability evaluations that remain poor
have an effect on the supplier strategy and can even lead
to the discontinuation of the business relationship.
When asked to do so by a customer, WACKER in its
capacity as a supplier also completed a TfS assessment. In
2015, we again received a Gold Recognition Level and thus
rank among the best in the chemical industry. Our largest
site at Burghausen, Germany, underwent a TfS audit in
2016, in which we achieved 100 percent of all evaluation
points.

41

Pr
Production
oduction and Safety
44

Environmental Protection Costs

56

Logistics and Transport

44

Environmental Performance
Assessment

59

Nature Conservation

60

Plant and Transport Safety

45

Integrated Production

47

Energy

49

Emissions

54

Soil and Groundwater

55

Waste

Production and Safety

Pr
Production
oduction and Safety
GRI 102-15

WACKER attaches particular importance to integrated
environmental protection. This commences with product
development and plant planning. In accordance with the
core ideas of the Responsible Care® initiative
(German-language version only), our environmental
protection measures often go beyond what is legally
required. WACKER continuously works on improving its
production processes to conserve resources. One of our
main tasks is to close material loops and recycle
byproducts from other areas back into production,
enabling us to reduce or prevent emissions and waste.
Responsible stewardship is one of the ways we contribute
to the United Nations’ sustainable development goals
(SDGs). In production, we focus on SDG 12 “Sustainable
Consumption,” SDG 13 “Climate Action” and SDG 17
“Partnerships for the Goals,” for example.
Our Group-wide environmental protection standards apply
to all our production sites and technical centers. The site
managers ensure that our environmental protection
measures conform to legal requirements and that we
adhere to environmental standards. The Group
Coordinator
for
the
Environment
checks
the
implementation of environmental standards in practice at
the sites and performs random checks to verify legal
compliance.
Our sites regularly inform the public about our
environmental-protection activities, including annual
community meetings at Nünchritz (Germany), as well as
similar events with neighbors or “open houses” at Adrian
(Michigan, USA) and Nanjing and Zhangjiagang in China.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Our Burghausen and Nünchritz sites publish environmental
reports
(available
in
German
only)
containing
environmental-protection facts and figures. We invited
representatives of authorities and mayors of neighboring
cities and towns, as well as organizations and the media
to Environmental Information Day 2016 at the Burghausen
site.
Environmental
Report
Burghausen
2015
(German-language version only)
Environmental
Report
Burghausen
2016
(German-language version only)
Emissions Report Burghausen 2015 (German-language
version only)
Emissions Report Burghausen 2016 (German-language
version only)
Environmental
Report
Nünchritz
2015
(German-language version only)
Environmental
Report
Nünchritz
2016
(German-language version only)
WACKER Greater China Sustainability 2015/2016
(Chinese-language version)
WACKER Greater China Sustainability 2015/2016
(English-language version)
WACKER has been a member of the Bavarian
Environmental Pact (German-language version only) since
it was founded in 1995. Since 2015, this Pact has been
operating under the slogan “Jointly strengthening the
environment and the economy.” The Pact serves as a
catalyst to promote an environmental partnership focusing
on climate protection and energy conservation,
raw-material efficiency and environmental technology,
biodiversity, and environment-based management. Its
primary aims are to strengthen companies’ individual
responsibility and avoid environmental pollution.

43

Production and Safety - Environmental Protection Costs

Environmental Protection
Costs
In 2016, WACKER invested €5.5 million in environmental
protection (2015: €5.7 million). Environmental operating
costs amounted to €81.0 million (2015: €83.8 million).
Examples of investment in environmental protection
include the Fentox® split-stream treatment plant at the
Burghausen site, and modifications to the filtration
systems in silicon-metal production at the Holla site in
Norway to reduce dust.

44

Environmental Protection Costs
€ million

2016

2015

2014

Operating costs

81.0

83.3

88.2

5.5

5.7

5.1

Water pollution control

3.3

1.9

4.1

Waste management

1.6

2.3

–

Noise reduction

0.1

–

–

Air pollution control

0.5

0.9

0.8

Climate protection

–

0.3

0.2

Soil remediation

–

0.3

0.0

Nature conservation and
landscape management

–

–

–

Investments
Investments in environmental
protection

Environmental Performance
Assessment
WACKER has a system in place to assess its sites’
environmental performance. This system is used to convert
a site’s total emissions and consumption of resources and
energy into environmental units, which also include the use
of water and amount of waste generated.

environmental units (which are measured
production volumes) by 41 percent since 2008.
Environmental Units for Chemical Production Sites
2016

The environmental performance assessment incorporates
both absolute quantities and weighting factors, which take
account of four criteria:
Environmental impact
Safety of treatment/disposal
Requirements imposed by environmental legislation
and corporate policy
Public acceptance
Energy consumption – electricity and heat consumption
included in the environmental units – is very important
to WACKER due to public awareness of the significance
of greenhouse gases and international climate-protection
agreements. Emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other
greenhouse gases are largely energy-related at WACKER.
The number of environmental units increased by 2.5
percent between 2014 and 2016. In terms of production
volumes, we improved by 6.5 percent relative to 2014.
At the Burghausen site, we have lowered the specific

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

against

Environmental units1
Gross production volume in 1,000
metric tons
Environmental units per 1,000 metric
tons of gross production1

1

2015

2014

141,269 135,321

137,816

16,522

16,236

14,972

8.6

8.3

9.2

Waste that was generated as a result of construction or investment
activities (such as rubble, scrap steel and paper) rather than
specifically due to production was recorded at the Burghausen site
during the 2015 reporting year. The amounts of waste and the EPAS
calculations (Environmental Performance Assessment) were
corrected retroactively, resulting in altered figures for 2014.

Accounting for environmental performance indicators has
included
consolidated
reporting
on
the
new
pharmaceutical site in Halle, Germany, since 2015. The
Charleston site, USA, which officially came on stream in
2016, reported environmental performance indicators for
2015 from the commissioning phase and the first figures

Production and Safety - Integrated Production

from production for 2016. Wacker Polymer Systems (Wuxi)
Co. Ltd, China, was closed down in May 2015.

Integrated Production
GRI 301-2, GRI 103-2

WACKER’s integrated production system is its greatest
strength. Compared with its competitors, WACKER has the
key competitive advantage of highly integrated material
loops at its major production sites in Burghausen,
Nünchritz and Zhangjiagang. Basically, integrated
production involves using the byproducts from one stage
as starting materials for making other products. Auxiliaries
required for this process, such as silanes, are recycled in
a closed loop and we utilize waste heat from one process
in other chemical processes. The result is lower specific
production costs per net production volume compared
with open production processes. Integrated production
allows us to lower energy and resource consumption, use
raw materials more efficiently and, at the same time,
integrate environmental protection measures into
production processes. Through our integrated production
sites, we create synergies in the supply of raw materials
and energy.
Our integrated production system is primarily based on
salt, silicon and ethylene as starting materials. In our
integrated processes, we optimize material efficiency by
purifying byproducts and reusing them or making them
available for external use. Examples:

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

In our integrated ethylene production system, we use
ethylene to obtain organic intermediates, which we
then turn into polymer dispersions and dispersible
polymer powders.
Our integrated silicon production system operates
along similar lines. Although comprising only a small
number of raw materials – silicon, methanol and salt
(sodium chloride) – this system enables us to
manufacture over 2,800 different silicone products, as
well as pyrogenic silica and polysilicon.
A further focus of our integrated production is to minimize
hydrogen chloride consumption. Hydrogen chloride is an
essential auxiliary deployed in the production of reactive
intermediates from energy-poor natural materials. We then
use these intermediates to make our end products.
Hydrogen chloride production requires a lot of energy. In
our integrated material loop, we recover both hydrogen
chloride and some of the energy in the form of heating
steam during the conversion of the chlorine-containing
intermediates to chlorine-free end products (such as
hyperpure silicon or pyrogenic silica). We then return the
recovered hydrogen chloride to the production loop and
reuse it. This closed material loop reduces emissions and,
due to lower raw-material consumption, shipment
journeys.

45

Production and Safety - Integrated Production

Integrated Hydrogen Chloride System

Chlorine-Containing Intermediates

Chlorine-Free
Sales
Products

14–18x
Recycling
Siloxanes
Methanol
Hydrogen-Chloride
Recovery

Hydrogen-Chloride
Consumer

Silicones
Pyrogenic
Silica

Silicon Metal

93-96%

Polysilicon
Silicon Wafers

Hydrogen-Chloride
Recycling Rate

46
Fresh
Hydrogen Chloride
Hydrogen-Chloride
Production
Chlorine-Containing
Raw Materials

Losses:
Solid Waste
Wastewater

Salt

We use a chlor-alkali membrane process to supply
chlorine, hydrogen, caustic soda and hydrogen chloride as
starting materials to our Burghausen site. This membrane
electrolysis has enabled us to stop using mercury-based
chlorine electrolysis and simultaneously cut energy
consumption by around 25 percent per year. Thus,
WACKER has fulfilled the chemical industry’s voluntary
commitment to phase out mercury-based processes by
2020 well ahead of schedule.
Examples of savings potential for resources through our
integrated production system:
We recycle 93 to 96 percent of the hydrogen chloride
that we use in the production loops at our Burghausen
and Nünchritz sites. During the reporting period, we

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

4-6%
Hydrogen-Chloride
Loss Rate
Chlorine-Containing
Products

reduced the HCl loss rate by means of further
optimization projects. To achieve this, we put an
additional waste-gas recycling facility into operation
in the integrated chlorosilane system and optimized
waste-gas recycling in the production of pyrogenic
silica. The reduction in HCl losses can also be seen in
the decline in chloride loading of the Burghausen site’s
wastewater by some 1,300 metric tons.
In 2016, our integrated production system in
Burghausen prevented the emission of 961,243 metric
tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) (2015: 917,608 metric
tons). Due to this high reutilization rate, less fresh
hydrogen chloride needs to be generated and,
consequently, there are savings in the transportation of
raw materials and in energy consumption.
50 percent of the heat used by Burghausen during

Production and Safety - Energy

the reporting period stems from the site’s integrated
heat-utilization system.
We optimized the hydrogen loops in our integrated
polysilicon production system and thus significantly
lowered the consumption of hydrogen extracted from
natural gas. This has led to a reduction in carbon
dioxide emissions of 9,300 metric tons per year
compared with 2014.

Zhangjiagang in China – alongside Burghausen (Bavaria)
and Nünchritz (Saxony) in Germany – is our third major
integrated production site. We employ state-of-the-art
environmental technology in China, too, where we operate
facilities according to stringent national and WACKER
EH&S standards. This also applies to our new site in
Charleston in the USA, where we will further optimize our
system of integrated polysilicon production.

Energy
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 302-1, GRI 302-4

The chemical industry is one of the most energy-intensive
sectors. In Germany alone, it uses around 20 percent of
all the electricity consumed by industry. Wacker Chemie
AG consumes 4,103 GWh of electricity in Germany,
representing approximately 0.8 percent of the country’s
electricity consumption. WACKER’s German production
sites accounted for 71 percent (2015: 78 percent) of
groupwide electricity needs. WACKER is continually
improving the energy efficiency of its processes. This
enables us to remain globally competitive while at the
same time contributing to climate protection.
Many chemical reactions generate heat that can be put to
use in other production processes. We have been using
integrated heat-recovery systems in Burghausen and
Nünchritz for years and are continually improving them.
In this way, we can reduce the amount of primary energy
(natural gas) consumed by our power plants.
To enhance energy efficiency and reduce specific energy
consumption per unit of net production output, the
Executive Board has defined energy targets for WACKER
Germany. Our original goal was to reduce weighted
specific energy consumption by one-third between 2007
and 2022, but we had already achieved that by 2014.
We have now set a goal of reducing specific energy
consumption to half of the 2007 level by the year 2022.

Energy Efﬁciency
One way in which Burghausen generates electricity is by
using hydroelectric power. Our Norwegian site, Holla, also
generates its electricity mainly from water power.
Our primary source of energy, though, is climate-friendly
natural gas. At Burghausen, our largest site, we produce
steam and electricity using a cogeneration system. The

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

highly efficient combined heat and power (CHP) plant
operates at more than 80-percent fuel efficiency, which is
significantly higher than that of conventional power plants
generating electricity and heat separately.
In 2016, we implemented energy-efficiency measures to
further reduce specific energy consumption. The Group’s
power plants – the hydroelectric and CHP plants in
Burghausen and the cogeneration plant in Nünchritz –
produced around 1,416 GWh of electricity in 2016 (2015:
1,451 GWh). This means that WACKER uses
environmentally friendly processes to cover roughly 25
percent of its total electricity needs itself. Groupwide,
carbon dioxide emissions from captive power plants
subject to emissions trading rules and from silicon-metal
production in Holla (Norway) totaled about 1.0 million
metric tons in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million metric tons).
WACKER is subject to the regulations of the EU emissions
trading system because of its CHP plants at the
Burghausen and Nünchritz sites. We have covered
shortfalls since 2014 by buying emission allowances for
facilities subject to emissions trading.
WACKER will continue its efforts to improve its energy
efficiency. By setting quantifiable environmental targets,
we intend to lower the environmental impact of our
production activities.

Saving Energy with WOS
In the period under review, we again improved our energy
efficiency with the help of projects that form part of our
WOS (Wacker Operating System) program.
At the Nünchritz site, we optimized the control
technology of the hydrogen plant and thus lowered
natural-gas consumption by around 15 percent.
We enhanced the polysilicon production processes in
Burghausen and Nünchritz and thus significantly

47

Production and Safety - Energy

reduced steam consumption over the past two years.
At the Cologne site, we are saving energy in polymer
production through process improvements in the
ethylene supply.
WACKER Greater China pursued over 160 WOS
projects in the reporting period. This resulted in a drop
in the Nanjing site’s specific energy consumption by
5.5 percent in 2016, for example.

Energy Consumption
GWh

2016

2015

2014

Electricity consumption

5,784

5,147

4,926

Heat consumption

3,947

3,520

3,571

Primary energy use (total)

6,464

6,062

6,081

Natural gas

5,420

5,029

4,975

Solid fuels1

769

768

839

Heat (supplied by third parties)2

258

245

242

17

20

20

Of which

Electricity Supply

Fuel oil

%
1

Coal, charcoal and wood; used as reducing agents at the
silicon-metal plant in Holla, Norway

2

Steam, district heating

55

29

Hydroelectric Power
The Burghausen site has been supplied with electricity
from Wacker Chemie AG’s “Alzwerke” hydroelectric facility
for almost a century. Average annual production is
currently at 265 GWh.

65

6

71
31

48
29
14
Electricity Consumption
Group: 5,784 GWh
71% Consumption in Germany
29% Consumption abroad1
Electricity Consumption
Germany: 4,103 GWh
65% Procured electricity
29% CHP2
6% Hydropower2
Procured Electricity
Germany: 2,687 GWh
55% Fossil fuels3
31% Renewable energy4
14% Nuclear energy

1 Outside Germany, we purchase electricity from third parties based on the

local standard energy mix
2 Burghausen
3 Coal, lignite, oil, gas; modified calculation method: since 2014, data has
been in line with Germany’s energy mix; source: BDEW (German Association
of Energy and Water Industries); status as of Nov. 2015, for the year 2014
4 Hydro, wind, solar power; modified calculation method: since 2014, data in
line with Germany’s energy mix; source: BDEW (German Association of
Energy and Water Industries)

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

From 1922 to 2016, this power station generated 23,246
GWh of electricity. The Alz canal between Hirten on the Alz
river and Burghausen on the Salzach river made it possible
to harness the water – which plunges 63 meters into the
turbines – for a hydroelectric power plant on the banks
of the Salzach. The electricity generated by the Alzwerke
plant was the key prerequisite for the chemical industry to
settle in Burghausen.
Over the past decades, the hydroelectric facility has
continuously increased its energy yield and annual
availability. As well as for electricity supply, the water is
used as cooling and process water at the Burghausen
site. In 2016, we cleaned up and repaired the roughly
17-kilometer Alz canal. We reported on this major project
in the WACKER WISSENSFORUM (knowledge forum;
German-language version only) and in the online
construction site diary (German-language version only), for
example. This major investment in the mid-double-digit
million-euro range shows that WACKER has undertaken
a long-term commitment to produce energy by means of
renewable sources.

Production and Safety - Emissions

Emissions
We are continuously developing our production processes
further to minimize emissions. Our environmental
management controls emissions to water and air –
greenhouse gases and air pollutants – as well as noise.

Air
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-5,
GRI 305-6, GRI 305-7

Global warming due to rising emissions of carbon dioxide
(CO2) is a socially and economically relevant environmental
factor. Its consequences can include extreme weather
conditions, such as storms, drought or flooding, that vary
from region to region, and their resulting effects, e.g. on
agriculture and the availability of drinking water. A primary
cause of climate change is the burning of fossil fuels.
That’s why we see energy efficiency as a key to
ecologically effective climate protection.
The Group’s corporate carbon footprint report is an
important tool for pursuing climate-protection measures.
We have been recording our indirect greenhouse gas
emissions from bought-in energy (as per Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Scope 2) since 2011, and we have also been
measuring our Scope 3 emissions since 2012. These
include all emissions generated along the supply chain,
e.g. by suppliers or through waste disposal and the
transportation of products.
In the 2016 fiscal year, we once again forwarded these
emissions data to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP),
which WACKER joined in 2007. Founded in London in
2000, CDP is a not-for-profit organization working to
achieve greater transparency in greenhouse-gas
emissions. Wacker Chemie AG’s performance profile was
rated B (on a scale from A to D) in CDP’s 2016 ratings.
Achieving a disclosure score of 97 out of a possible 100
points and a performance score of B on a scale of A to E,
we were above average in the Energy & Materials category
in 2015. WACKER was among the leading companies
listed in the MDAX index in 2015.
Commissioning of the Charleston site, USA, led to an
8.7-percent rise (in CO2 equivalents; CO2e) in direct
greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 1) groupwide in 2016. In
the previous year, they fell by 1.4 percent groupwide.
Our indirect CO2 emissions from procured energy (as per
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2) rose by just under 17

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

percent to 1,855 kilotons (kt) in 2016 (2015: 1,544 kt). The
reasons for the increase were the commissioning of the US
Charleston site, and the temporary maintenance work on
the Burghausen combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant
in the same year. The rise in indirect CO2 emissions in
2015 was due to the inclusion of emissions from electricity
consumption for 300 mm wafer production in Singapore,
increased production volumes at Burghausen and
Nünchritz, and the higher emissions factor for electricity
generation in Germany (data in accordance with “CO2
Emissions from Fuel Combustion,” 2015 and 2016 Edition,
published by the International Energy Agency). We used
energy-efficiency measures to reduce weighted specific
energy consumption and the associated specific CO2
emissions – while maintaining a comparable product
portfolio.
Emissions to Air
2016

2015

2014

Direct (kt)

1,287

1,234

1,251

Indirect (kt)

1,856

1,544

1,420

CH4 methane (t)

90

89

81

N2O nitrous oxide (t)

42

39

64

412

8

6

PFC perfluorocarbons (t)

0.059

0.059

0.059

NF3 nitrogen trifluoride (t)

0.012

0.011

0.008

SF6 sulfur hexafluoride (t)

0.000

0.000

0.000

CO2 carbon dioxide1

Other Greenhouse Gases

HFC hydrofluorocarbons (t)

1

CO2 emissions are measured as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(GHG Protocol: “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard”),
published by the World Resources Institute and World Business
Council for Sustainable Development. Scope 1: direct CO2
emissions. Scope 2: indirect emissions from the consumption of
purchased energy (converted into CO2 equivalents for purchased
electricity) based on national electricity mixes. In accordance with
the recommendations of the GHG Protocol, Wacker Chemie AG’s
direct and indirect emissions were recalculated retroactively due to
amendments to the system boundaries, starting from the reference
year (2012) for the CO2 target. For the purposes of sustainability
reporting, the Group’s direct CO2 emissions also included intra-plant
traffic emissions at our sites, emissions generated during biological
wastewater treatment, and the emissions of the emergency power
units used during the shutdown of the Alz canal at the Burghausen
site.

2

The increase in HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) is not attributable to
normal operating conditions (regular emissions), but is due to
unforeseen events or losses caused by leaks.

49

Production and Safety - Emissions

Greenhouse Gas Emissions
GWP
factor2

kt CO2e1

CO2 carbon dioxide3
CH4 methane

4

1

2016

2015

2014

1,287.39 1,234.08 1,251.08

25

2.25

2.23

2.03

298

12.61

11.72

19.00

1,430

58.334

11.21

8.54

PFC perfluorocarbons

9,800

0.58

0.58

0.58

NF3 nitrogen trifluoride

17,200

0.21

0.19

0.14

SF6 sulfur hexafluoride

22,800

0.00

0.00

0.00

N2O nitrous oxide
HFC hydrofluorocarbons

1

CO2e = CO2 equivalents, as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1
(direct emissions)

2

The GWP factor (Global Warming Potential) is a measure of how
much a gas contributes to the greenhouse effect compared with
CO2. For example, the GWP factor for methane over 100 years is 25
(according to IPCC Fourth Assessment Report 2007). This means
that emissions from 1 kg of methane are 25 times more harmful than
from 1 kg of carbon dioxide.

3

For the purposes of sustainability reporting, the Group’s direct CO2
emissions also included intra-plant traffic emissions at our sites,
emissions generated during biological wastewater treatment, and
the emissions of the emergency power units used during the
shutdown of the Alz canal at the Burghausen site.

4

The increase in HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) is not attributable to
normal operating conditions (regular emissions), but is due to
unforeseen events / losses caused by leaks.

50

Emissions of Air Pollutants

NOx nitrogen oxides (t)

2016

2015

2014

2,035

1,919

1,960

NMVOC non-methane volatile organic
compounds (t)

920

910

830

CO carbon monoxide (t)

333

327

347

Total dust1

517

389

494

SO2 sulfur dioxide2 (t)

729

739

766

1

One of our environmental targets concerns total dust emissions. We
are reporting on these emissions for 2016 for the first time
(calculated retroactively to 2012, the initial year of our dust-related
environmental objective).

2

2016 is the first time we are reporting SO2 (sulfur dioxide) (calculated
retroactively to 2014) for the Holla site.

There were two reasons for increased nitrogen oxide
emissions (NOx) in 2016: first, the new Charleston site;
second, the legally required recording of emissions data
at the Holla site in Norway involved a new measurement
method. In 2015, they had dropped by around 4 percent.
Several measures were responsible for this. At the Freiberg
site, Siltronic took a third stage of the NOx scrubber into

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

operation. We modernized a burner stage of the steam
generator in Nünchritz. We reduced our NOx emissions in
Nünchritz by cutting the amount of waste that is thermally
processed. Extending the operating time of the gas turbine
in our Burghausen power plant also had a positive effect
on NOx emissions in 2015.
Emissions of non-methane volatile organic compounds
(NMVOCs) at Burghausen fell in 2016; groupwide, they
rose slightly as a result of higher production volumes at
the sites in Nanjing (China) and Ulsan (South Korea). We
support a local government initiative in China aimed at
reducing VOC emissions. The Nanjing and Zhangjiagang
sites have started the implementation of VOC LDAR (VOC
leakage detection and repair). In addition, we monitor
online the VOC emissions from Nanjing’s powder-plant
dryers and share our data with local environmental
authorities.
At WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS’ Eddyville site in Iowa (USA),
optimization of apparatus maintenance and solvent
recovery has enabled us to reduce NMVOC emissions by
33 percent between 2012 and 2015. NMVOC emissions
there dropped further in 2016 due to lower
production-capacity utilization.
One of our environmental targets is to halve specific dust
emissions per metric ton of product groupwide between
2012 and 2022. This mainly affects silicon-metal
production at the Holla site in Norway, where modifications
were made to filtration systems in 2016 in order to reduce
dust. Owing to this modification work, dust emissions rose
temporarily during the official, four-week period of
non-standard operations. If specific emissions are
calculated based on normal operations in 2016, measures
already taken have brought about a reduction in dust
emissions of some 40 percent relative to the base year of
2012.
At the Stetten site, the acceptance of backfill produced
unpleasant odors for neighbors under unfavorable weather
conditions in the period under review. We analyzed the
underlying cause and worked on several solutions. A new
approach is to no longer accept backfill with a strong odor.
We furthermore sealed cavities that had already been filled
again and successfully tested the use of cyclodextrins for
odor absorption. The next step is to carry out a long-term
trial with cyclodextrins.
We take measurements at our largest site, Burghausen,
in order to monitor whether our individual site facilities
comply with legal emissions limits. Immission
measurements in the adjoining EU Habitats Directive site
(German-language version only) by an external assessor

Production and Safety - Emissions

showed that the values measured there are considerably
below the legally permissible limit values or guideline
values.
Sustainable Mobility Strategy
When it comes to climate protection, production is not
the only factor – our employees’ carbon footprint is also
significant. We encourage them to leave their cars at home.
At our Burghausen site, we provide 56 commuter bus
routes, which some 3,000 of our employees use every
day within a 50-km radius; around 5,000 employees have
annual tickets.
At our Burghausen site, we maintain a fleet of around
6,000 bicycles and offer our employees charging facilities
for their e-bikes. We also provide charging facilities at our
central R&D facilities in Munich. Our Nünchritz site has a
fleet of around 950 bicycles. In Germany, we participated in
the campaign “Cycle to Work” (German-language version
only).
WACKER received the 2015 GreenFleet award for its
sustainable fleet and passenger transport strategy. The
award was conferred by FleetCompany GmbH, a
subsidiary of TÜV Süd (the German association for
technical inspection). The jury honored WACKER for using
environmentally friendly vehicles, keeping passenger
transports and business trips to a minimum, organizing
shuttle services, and maintaining a fleet of on-site bicycles.
Our company car fleet has some 650 vehicles groupwide
and accounts for 0.5 percent of groupwide greenhouse gas
emissions as per Scope 1 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
When we choose contracting companies for passenger
transport, we assess the safety and environmental impact
of the vehicles used by the bidders. Since 2011, our
company car fleet in Germany has only included models
that meet a minimum rating of “good” according to the
safety and environmental assessment criteria issued by the
German Automobile Association (ADAC).
We have tightened the CO2 emissions limits for our
company cars to a maximum of 110 to 175 g/km. Our fleet
average is 132 g/km. At an annual average of 30,000 km
traveled per car, we lowered CO2 emissions by almost 10
percent in the period under review, relative to 2012. Since
late 2016, we have been conducting tests to incorporate
electromobility into our company vehicle concept as part
of the WACKER Emobility project.
WACKER offers frequent travelers and employees who use
company cars the opportunity of participating in safety and
eco training. Regularly held safety weeks at our sites cover

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

sustainable mobility topics. We are looking at incentive
systems that will motivate managerial employees even
more to switch to environmentally friendly vehicles with
alternative drives.
During
the
period
under
review,
we
tested
hydrogen-powered vehicles, but decided that electric
vehicles are more suitable for us. The electric drive does
not generate exhaust gases, is quiet and has low operating
and maintenance costs, as it requires less servicing.
Over two thirds of the materials-handling equipment (lifting
trucks, stackers and towing vehicles) at our Burghausen
and Nünchritz sites have electric motors. Groupwide, the
switchover to energy-saving electric motors now covers
other equipment, such as pumps and compressors.
In Burghausen, a shuttle bus picks up employees arriving
from Munich at the train station and transports them to
various destinations on site; a zero-emission shuttle bus
for visitors is used on the site. Electric vehicles are part
of our pool fleet, as are hybrid vehicles since 2016. Our
internal mail service at the Burghausen site switched to
electric vehicles in fall 2016. The technical departments
for installation and on-call services use several commercial
electric vehicles, too.
We encourage our employees to take the train when
traveling between the Burghausen site and Munich
headquarters. And we have negotiated a special ticket for
this regular route with SüdOstBayernBahn, which includes
public transport (e.g. the subway to the headquarters).
An additional appeal of the special corporate ticket is a
bonus card for frequent travelers. WACKER also provides
employees with German Rail “Bahncards.” As part of the
2016 bahn.business program (German-language version
only), 43.4 percent of our business trips were covered by
rail, CO2-free with 100 percent green electricity.
In China, we offer shuttle buses from residential areas to
our sites in Nanjing and Zhangjiagang. Siltronic’s US site at
Portland (Oregon) provides incentives – such as subsidized
public transportation – to encourage employees to
commute in an environmentally aware fashion. In
Singapore, Siltronic has arranged for shuttle buses to
travel from the site to various parts of the city. A shuttle bus
system is also available to our employees in Kolkata, India.

Noise
Noise can cause serious environmental stress. That’s why
we see noise protection as an important part of our social
responsibility. and we work hard putting measures and
projects in place to reduce noise at our production sites.

51

Production and Safety - Emissions

And it has paid off: noise pollution at the Burghausen
site has dropped significantly over the past 40 years. The
immission-control experts from the Environment
department are constantly patrolling the site. They check
the noise level at workplaces and monitor the sound level
the plant emits beyond the premises. The decibel levels
measured at a central location in Burghausen are
considered representative of the noise pollution emitted
from the site. Under normal operating conditions, noise
from the production plant comes in at around 43 decibels
at the measuring point – nearly 20 decibels less than the
sound of a conversation.
The noise produced by the site is one twentieth of what
it was when measurements began in 1976, even though
the number of plants on site has increased by well over
100 percent during the same period. The basic principle
underlying emissions control is that for every new source
of noise, a previous, louder source has to be eliminated
or improved. Some 1,800 sources of noise have been
identified at the Burghausen site where they are
categorized according to loudness and included in a

comprehensive acoustic emission calculation. Relatively
small sources of noise are reviewed every ten years and
more significant sources every three years. When new
buildings are erected, the noise-protection experts are
involved early on in the planning phase. Acceptance
measurements are carried out for all new plants, but also
when changes have been made. In addition to in-house
monitoring, an independent body conducts emissions
testing every three years.
We use insulation, enclosures, mufflers and noise barriers
to reduce noise produced by individual machines. When
considering noise protection, the big picture must be taken
into account: if, for example, loud machines are installed
in high buildings with large windows, the glass surface will
vibrate and increase the noise level. Exhaust gas is another
case in point: after a new spray dryer for dispersible
polymer powders was installed at the Burghausen site, our
experts measured noise emissions directly in the exhaust
stack; the detected noise was subsequently reduced by
making technical adjustments. This solution has already
been carried out on existing spray dryers in Burghausen.

Burghausen Noise Control Agreement

52

Assessment level dB (A)
Production
expansion
+130%

60
58
56
54

1st

52
50

no

ise
no contr
ise
o
mit l agr
iga eem
tio
n ent:

48
2nd noise-control agreement:
site expansion

46
44

43.5 dB (A)

42

30
1976

1980

1984

1988

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

1992

1996

2000

2004

2008

2012

2016

Production and Safety - Emissions

Water
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-3,
GRI 306-1, GRI 306-5

for pumping was higher. That is why, post clean-up phase,
we are again using water from the Alz canal, which
consumes less power.
Water Use / Emissions to Water

Water is an extremely precious resource – not only as
drinking water, but also as a raw material, solvent and
coolant in many technical and chemical processes. At
WACKER, we use water sparingly and protect natural
water resources. We always purify our wastewater as
effectively as possible and recycle the water by means of
cycles in our production. We make sure that this multiple
use does not increase energy consumption or otherwise
negatively impact the environment.
We use the Global Water Tool© (GWT) developed by the
World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) to analyze the annual relative water stress index
of the countries in which our main global production sites
are located. This assessment has been conducted since
2012, based on analyses using the water stress index
developed by the Water Systems Analysis Group of the
University of New Hampshire, USA. This index provides
information on the relationship between water
consumption and the availability of renewable fresh water.
The outcome of the analysis is that our most important
production sites are located in regions with a low relative
water stress index. These regions account for more than 97
percent of our annual water use and over 90 percent of our
production volume. Production sites in countries for which
no GWT-based water stress index information is available
account for less than 0.5 percent of our water use.
Together with seven other companies from ChemDelta
Bavaria, we established the Naturnahe Alz (Natural Alz)
association (German-language version only), through
which we support the state of Bavaria in renaturalizing the
Alz river and enhancing its ecosystem long-term.
In 2016, we cleaned up and repaired the roughly
17-kilometer Alz canal at the Burghausen site. Its water
is used to generate power as well as supply cooling and
process water for the Burghausen site. To ensure that the
waterway ecology would not be compromised during the
clean-up phase, we used a monitoring program to control
the alternative intake of cooling and process water and the
altered disposal of cooling/process water and wastewater.
We used the Salzach river as an alternative source of
cooling and process water, as it has a much lower
temperature than that of the Alz canal. As a result, much
less water was required, though the power consumption

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

2016

2015

2014

Water use ( thousand m3 )

231,858 237,060

241,973

Cooling water volume ( thousand m3 )

214,912 221,274

223,647

Wastewater volume (thousand m3)

21,440

20,731

21,140

COD (chemical oxygen demand) (t)

1,310

1,150

1,230

AOX (halogenated organic
hydrocarbons) (t)

3.2

2.2

2.1

Heavy metals (t)

1.2

1.2

1.3

Total nitrogen (t)

567

611

533

Total phosphorus (t)

6.5

6.4

7.8

COD (chemical oxygen demand) effluent burdens rose in
2016 as a result of the new polysilicon production plant in
Charleston (USA).
The 2016 increase in AOX (adsorbable organic halogen
compounds) was caused by a discharge from a company
based at the Burghausen site accidentally entering
WACKER’s captive sewer system; the discharged
substance did not adversely impact the environment.
In 2015, we obtained a permit as required under German
water law in order to withdraw more groundwater at the
Burghausen site in the future. This allows us to ensure the
quality of our ultrapure water supply and to bridge periods
of poor quality surface water. An extensive monitoring
program accompanies the withdrawal of groundwater. This
includes groundwater level measurements, discharge
measurements at three streams in the Haiming municipality
and a functional check of the habitats in the riparian
woodland, including nature-conservation inventories. This
is how we ensure that the groundwater withdrawal does
not negatively impact registered protected areas.
At the Burghausen site, WACKER SILICONES has been
reducing the organic burden within the effluent feed to
the biological wastewater treatment plant by means of
Fentox® split-stream treatment since 2015. Over the last
seven years, we have continually reduced the volume of
harmful substances emitted into the Salzach river. We
switched the biological wastewater treatment plant’s first
bio-stage from double-tank to single-tank mode and
started operation of an additional intermediate wastewater

53

Production and Safety - Soil and Groundwater

storage tank. We use it to collect peak pollutant loads
so that they can be fed into the biological wastewater
treatment system in a controlled manner during phases of
low influent from production. The consistent feed-in supply
leads to more stable operation of the biological wastewater
treatment plant. Emissions of organic pollutants to the
Salzach river have decreased by 42 percent since 2010.
In Burghausen, we established new protective measures
for the stormwater sewer system in the period under
review: to avoid substance discharge into the stormwater
sewer, special mats are now available for gullies and
manhole covers. The aim is to prevent substances such as
petrol, hydraulic fluid or products from plants from running
into the stormwater sewer via the road drainage system in
the event of an accident involving substance escapes.
The process water used at Nünchritz comes from on-site
wells (2016: 4,059,847m3, 2015: 4,291,069 m3). Drinking
water accounts for less than 1 percent of our total water
use at this site.

54

We built a new culvert at the Nünchritz site in 2015,
because the two existing water supply lines are already 50
and 80 years old. The process water needed for production
is extracted from wells on the left side of the Elbe river
and conveyed underneath the Elbe and into the site. The
new culvert did not alter water use; the well water flow rate
averages at around 500 m3 per hour. The water is primarily
used for cooling plants; wastewater passes through the
treatment plant and back to the Elbe.
“Save Wastewater and Make a Profit” was the title of a
special Employee Suggestion Program initiative that took
place at the Nünchritz site from December 2014 to
September 2015. The purpose of the initiative was to

encourage employees to develop ideas for conserving and
recycling water in production, thereby raising their general
awareness for reducing wastewater. In the course of the
initiative, wastewater in the central wastewater treatment
plant at Nünchritz went down by some 5 percent. Since
2010, specific water use at Nünchritz has halved, even
though wastewater volumes rose overall due to polysilicon
production expansion.
Despite higher purity requirements, we have conserved
water in production at Siltronic, e.g. by using circulation
water in processes with lower purity requirements, letting
the purification bath stand for longer, and reusing
concentrate from reverse osmosis for mechanical
processes (such as air scrubbers, lapping and
wire-sawing). Siltronic has saved around 39 percent water
at its Portland, USA, site since 2013, for example. We
monitor the use of ultrapure water in wafer production;
Siltronic achieves a water-recycling rate of up to 45
percent.
The town of Freiberg obtains its water from the Lichtenberg
Dam. The Siltronic site there uses the surface water from
the dam for cooling crystal pulling facilities. It is
furthermore purified into hyperpure water for wafer
production. Surface water from the man-made Kohlbach
ditch is now only carried to the site for the emergency
cooling of the crystal pulling facilities. In connection with
the construction of the new pulling hall, the Freiberg site
gained a rain retention basin with an emergency function.
In an emergency, polluted wastewater can be separated
into a basin made of reinforced concrete. The new plant
construction makes the site’s drainage system state of the
art and contributes to further reducing the risk of pollution
of the Münzbach and Mulde rivers in the case of an
accident.

Soil and Groundwater
GRI 306-3

Like many other long-standing chemical companies,
WACKER has some soil contamination on its site premises.
In the pioneering days of chemical production, nobody was
aware of the dangers posed by certain chemicals, or that
some substances could remain in the ground for prolonged
periods without undergoing degradation.
To remediate this legacy of contamination, WACKER has
been extracting air from the soil at the Burghausen site

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

since 1989. This predominantly removes highly volatile
halogenated hydrocarbons from the soil, which are then
incinerated to render them harmless. By the end of 2016,
we had removed a total of 2,041 metric tons of chlorinated
hydrocarbons (CHCs); the amount of contaminants
removed in 2016 was 19 metric tons.
Since 2003, we have been using a groundwater stripping
plant to treat an area of localized groundwater
contamination east of the Burghausen site. By the end of
2016, 31 metric tons of CHCs had been removed; pollutant
concentrations have been reduced to one tenth of their

Production and Safety - Waste

original levels. In order to reduce the discharge of
hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) into the tailrace, we are
continuing groundwater treatment of the site’s
contaminated areas. Currently, 92 kilograms of the
pollutant is being removed per year. The results of our
annual fish contaminant survey at Burghausen indicate
that fish from the Salzach river are quite safe to eat.
There is some groundwater contamination at our Nünchritz
site, too. This predates WACKER’s takeover of the site
and has already been cleaned up by means of temporary
measures. A remedial investigation is currently underway
to devise a concept for further remediation measures. In
addition, we are revising a concept for flood protection

at the Nünchritz site in close collaboration with local
authorities.
Siltronic’s Portland site in Oregon, USA, has developed a
method of biodegrading trichloroethylene (TCE) residues
in groundwater by means of microorganisms. With this
method, which has been approved by the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ), we almost
completely eliminate trichloroethylene from groundwater
and thus achieve drinking water quality. The US
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has recognized our
biological method of degrading chlorinated volatile organic
compounds (CVOCs) with which we eliminate 90+ percent
of these substances.

Waste
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 306-2

Waste
t

In integrated production, we minimize waste by feeding
byproducts back into the production loop. WACKER
endeavors to avoid waste throughout a product’s entire
life cycle. Groupwide, we record the volume of waste we
generate according to the criteria “to be recycled” and
“to be disposed of,” as well as “hazardous” and
“non-hazardous.”
With regard to waste, we prioritize prevention over
recycling over disposal. We see it as one of our ongoing
tasks to identify new ways of suitable material recycling
within and outside our sites. The Nünchritz site has
achieved a recycling rate of over 97 percent since 2010.
It is very important to us that waste is recycled, treated and
disposed of in an environmentally compatible and legally
compliant manner. To this end, we monitor the disposal
companies that we work with for recycling and disposal
with regular audits and assess them according to four
criteria:
Quantity of disposed materials
Company size of the service provider
Potential of disposed materials to cause environmental
damage
Disposal costs
We complete systematic checklists for our reports when
we visit disposal agents. Our German sites can exchange
information about external disposal companies via our
internal Environmental Information System (EIS).

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

2015

20141

167,140 167,910

173,110

2016

Total
Of which
Disposed of
Recycled

46,490

51,570

123,550 121,420

43,590

121,540

Or

1

Hazardous

81,110

75,520

78,330

Non-hazardous

86,030

92,390

94,780

Waste that is generated as a result of construction or investment
activities (such as rubble, scrap steel and paper) rather than
specifically due to production has also been recorded at the
Burghausen site since 2015. The amounts of waste were corrected
retroactively.

At the Burghausen site, we started up a plant in 2015
to recover 2,400 metric tons per annum of ethylene –
previously disposed of in the waste-gas incinerator – and
utilize it for VAM production at WACKER POLYMERS. In
the same year, we recorded waste at the Burghausen site
that was not generated during production, but rather
during construction and investment activities, e.g. rubble,
scrap steel and paper. Groupwide, waste volumes fell by
around 3 percent in 2015; this trend continued in 2016.
We maintain a chemicals-exchange database. Burghausen
site employees can use it to identify surplus substances,
either in opened packaging drums, or in their original
container. The database is a practical way to coordinate
the recycling of surplus materials. For larger material
volumes, our business divisions can avail of an online

55

Production and Safety - Logistics and Transport

portal to advertise unused materials groupwide to avoid
disposal.
In the reporting period, WACKER India in Mumbai
dedicated special campaigns to World Environment Day,
where employees addressed waste-reduction topics,
among others.

Reusable Packaging
WACKER is keen to minimize the environmental impact of
its packaging materials. For instance, Siltronic AG prefers
reusable packaging such as the Hybox. We ship our 300
mm wafers in this type of reusable container, which is
designed for transportation in hygienically sensitive areas.
The Hybox has 30 percent less volume than cardboard
packaging. Since the introduction of the Hybox in 2006, we

have shipped 74,000 of them and, thanks to this reusable
design, we have avoided a total of around 3,700 metric
tons of waste.
The Siltronic sites use a recycling process for cutting slurry.
Cutting slurry is added in the wire-sawing of wafers and
consists of a cutting fluid and silicon carbide as the cutting
material. For recycling purposes, we collect used cutting
slurry for external recovery companies that separate liquid
and solids. The recycling companies recover 85 to 100
percent of our cutting fluid, which is then used in
production again. Recycling rates of up to 75 percent have
been achieved for silicon carbide. Any solids that cannot
be used find application as blast furnace aggregates in
steel smelting, for example.

Logistics and Transport
GRI 203-1, GRI 305-3

56

We constantly strive to improve our processes in order to
optimize logistics chains and minimize shipment journeys
or avoid unnecessary ones. Our Logistics department uses
a simulation system to help us analyze the flow of goods.
We can use this system to calculate carbon dioxide
emissions and determine the potential for optimizing
transport routes and vehicle capacity utilization. We use
electronic systems to organize in-plant transportation such
that routes are short and wasted empty space is avoided.
To monitor our journeys, we also follow the “guidelines
for determining the carbon dioxide emissions associated
with logistics operations” (German-language version only)
issued by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI).
As well as checking carbon dioxide levels, we monitor
noise emissions from the vehicles we use for our
shipments.
For the optimization of its logistics processes, Wacker
Chemie AG received the VCI’s Responsible Care® Award
2015. Among other things, the jury acknowledged that we
have reduced the number of empty containers transported
since 2011 by 20 percent.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

At its production sites, WACKER processes raw materials
from all over the world. We have developed a strategy for
our supply chains that allows us to coordinate capacities
for raw-material deliveries and exports, and to avoid empty
space in containers. In addition, in our collaboration with
shipping companies, our tendering for overseas imports
and exports run in parallel. This allows us to assign
containers for our raw-material deliveries that belong to the
same shipping-company portfolio that we use for exports.
The raw materials enter our train system in Hamburg; after
the journey, the containers are unloaded at our sites and
then loaded again directly for export. Transport of
intermediates between our sites follows the same concept.
“Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG
Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain” estimates
the emissions from downstream transportation processes
and goods distribution as low compared to other Scope 3
categories. WACKER uses a refined computational model
for calculating all the transportation processes of the
products from the sites to the customer. It is based on
factors from “Cefic-ECTA Guidelines for Measuring and
Managing CO2 Emissions from Freight Transport
Operations.” The exported quantities rose in the reporting
period, indicating that the transfer of transportation from
road to rail has led to a reduction in transport-related
emissions.

Production and Safety - Logistics and Transport

Emissions from Transportation Processes (in Metric Tons of CO2) of WACKER Products to the Customer

t

2014

2015

2016

243,200

273,800

256,800

Transportation by railroad

800

1,100

900

Transportation by air

24,000

22,700

27,100

Transportation by sea

43,100

47,300

45,500

175,300

202,700

183,300

Transportation by road

Logistics Hub
Wherever possible, we are switching from road to rail
transport. Today, the majority of the freight containers
leaving our German sites are transported by rail to North
Sea ports, in particular. WACKER’s 600-meter-long
container train travels every day from Burghausen or
Nünchritz to the ports in Bremerhaven and Hamburg. In
Burghausen, we now transport more than 95 percent of
container shipments by rail.
Shipping volumes rose year over year in both 2015 and
2016. The Group’s largest logistics hub, Burghausen,
increased its shipping volume by about 3 percent to
around 825,000 metric tons (2015: 800,000 metric tons).

There was a slight rise in the number of both truck loads
and overseas containers – to 43,000 (2015: 40,700) and
14,400 (2015: 14,000), respectively.

57
The combined road and rail terminal in Burghausen, open
to public use, has significantly increased the number of
goods transshipments and transport connections. Besides
additional trains to the northern ports of Hamburg and
Bremerhaven, new connections to Cologne and Trieste
have been introduced, helping us to shift more traffic from
road to rail. The freight containers are loaded directly onto
a container train ex works. This eliminates some 30,000
shipments by road and reduces CO2 emissions by
approximately 2,500 metric tons per year.

Transport Volumes for the Burghausen Logistics Hub

Shipment of approx.
825 ,00 0 metric tons of ﬁnished products

By rail
to the port

43,000
truck loa ds

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

14,400
overseas containers

Production and Safety - Logistics and Transport

From our Nünchritz site, some 6,000 containers are
transported to German seaports by rail and inland
waterways from Riesa every year. When we procure raw
materials, they are primarily transported by rail, too. Over
shorter distances, however, truck transport is still more
cost-effective and thus indispensable. Thanks to the new
nitrogen plant at the Nünchritz site, we have been able to
cover our inert gas demand on site since 2016. We can
thus relieve road traffic by an annual 400 truck transports.
At our new production site in Charleston, Tennessee (USA),
we have developed and installed logistics processes
required for start-up and production. At the Zhangjiagang
site, a new logistics storage and distribution center started
operation in September 2015 in order to more efficiently
process higher volumes of raw materials and downstream
products and to serve customers more quickly.

Reducing Shipment Routes

58

In integrated production, we transport products and
byproducts from one plant to neighboring facilities by
pipeline. For large quantities, the transport of products by
pipeline is cost-effective, safe and emission-free. Ethylene,
one of our most important raw materials, is piped to our
Burghausen site from the adjacent OMV Deutschland site.
The Ethylene-Pipeline South (EPS) (German-language
version only) helps us to ensure the long-term availability
of this key raw material. In the 370-km long pipeline, which
runs west from Münchsmünster in Bavaria across
Baden-Württemberg
to
Ludwigshafen
in
Rhineland-Palatinate, the raw material is transported
without emissions and at very low energy costs.
Our Nünchritz plant obtains cartridges for silicones from
a packaging manufacturer in nearby Grossenhain.
Burghausen obtains reusable IBCs (intermediate bulk
containers) and drums from suppliers. We are increasingly
replacing 220-liter drums for shipping silicone fluids and
emulsions with 1,000-liter IBCs. WACKER fills over
140,000 of these containers annually, which it obtains from
a supplier a short distance away. This supplier recycles
some 20 percent as reco containers (rebottled) for reuse.
Short distances to service providers and maximum
avoidance of empty space in the containers help to
minimize emissions and waste. We are implementing
similar measures at our sites in China, Japan and the USA.
As an alternative to tank containers and IBCs, we also use
flexitanks to transport liquids to Brazil, China, India and the
Middle East, for example. WACKER mounts the flexitanks
in containers in such a way that, once the flexitank has
been emptied, the container can be used for another cargo
straight away, without having to be cleaned first.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Piston tanks are an environmentally sound alternative to
transport drums for viscous products such as our silicone
sealants. A moving internal piston pushes 25 metric tons
of silicone sealant – equivalent to 125 steel drums – into
the tank semitrailer during loading. Customers can connect
the tank directly to their filling equipment and the piston
pushes the product out of the tank. Several thousand
metric tons of silicone sealant currently leave our
Burghausen site in this way. WACKER’s sites outside
Germany, too, procure mainly from regional suppliers to
shorten transport distances.
We exchange electronic data with our shipping agents so
that they can plan their trips as efficiently as possible and
ensure their vehicles are always fully loaded. Our strategy
of focusing on regional shipping agents helps avoid empty
runs. It enables the agents responsible for a particular
postal code area to plan return journeys in their region so
that trucks are almost never partially laden. Our annual
assessment of shipping agents extends to their
environmental performance. For example, we ask how their
vehicles are rated in European emission standards (such
as the Euro 5 exhaust emission standard). The number of
Euro 5 and higher category vehicles used by our logistics
providers has increased from just under 8 percent in 2006
to over 83 percent in 2016; the number of vehicles in the
Euro 6 category is now greater than 30 percent.

Climate-Neutral Transport
With the GoGreen certificate, our logistics service provider
Deutsche Post DHL certifies the offsetting of greenhouse
gas emissions generated by the transport of our parcels.
The greenhouse gas emissions specified on the certificate
of 2.91 metric tons CO2e in 2016 include emissions from
transport and logistics, as well as upstream emissions from
fuel and energy generation (2015: 3.35 t CO2e). CO2
equivalents (CO2e) include carbon dioxide (CO2) and other
greenhouse gases, such as methane (CH4) and nitrous
oxide (N2O).
Deutsche Post DHL’s carbon management is offsetting the
greenhouse gas emissions generated during transport in
the period under review through investments in global
climate-protection projects. The SGS (Société Générale
de Surveillance) has verified the calculated greenhouse
gas emissions and their compensation in accordance with
carbon management systems and the “Greenhouse Gas
Protocol – Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting
Standard.”

Production and Safety - Nature Conservation

Transport Routes to ChemDelta
Bavaria
In the ChemDelta Bavaria area, one of the major
infrastructure projects is the electrification of the rail route
to Munich and its expansion to two tracks. This project
is making good progress. Previously, the rail line to
Burghausen had been in the same condition as in 1897,
with the exception of a few enhancements over recent
years. One bottleneck was the section between
Altmühldorf and Tüßling, where three rail lines meet;
around 1% of German freight traffic passes through here.
This bottleneck was removed in May 2017.
We actively support the “Ja zur A 94 e.V.” (Yes to A 94;
German-language version only) association to push the
expansion of the A 94 Munich to Passau autobahn
together with other ChemDelta Bavaria companies. The
call for bids as part of a PPP (public-private partnership)

project – which is securing the funding for the stretches
from Pastetten to Dorfen and Dorfen to Heldenstein –
resulted in the awarding of the contract to Isentalautobahn
GmbH & Co. KG (German-language version only) in 2015.
A continuous autobahn from Munich to Marktl is to
become a reality by fall 2019. This will not only improve
the transport infrastructure of ChemDelta Bavaria, but also
relieve congestion in villages and towns along the B12
highway and thus reduce the risk of accidents on this
stretch of road.
We are involved in the “Magistrale für Europa” (Major Rail
Route for Europe) initiative, which has been committed to
the expansion of the rail connection between Paris and
Budapest under the slogan “from patchwork to network”
for the past 20 years. The Munich – Mühldorf – Freilassing
section is on this route.

Nature Conservation
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 304-1, GRI 304-2, GRI 304-3,
GRI 306-5

Our environmental-protection efforts to conserve
resources and reinstate habitat help maintain the balance
of species. Burghausen’s Site Planning unit develops
strategies for limiting land use. We have implemented a
site development plan that contains a renaturation concept
and ensures that we also use spaces between buildings
and old plants. We carefully assess the impact that site
expansions may have on nature and biodiversity and –
in consultation with the authorities – implement
environmental mitigation programs to offset these impacts.
Covering 232 hectares (about the same size as Munich’s
historic downtown district), our Burghausen site borders
an EU Habitats Directive site (German-language version
only) alongside the Salzach river. To check whether the
operation of our facilities has any effect on this nature
reserve, we regularly monitor our air pollution levels
(especially nitrogen oxide emissions, NOx). In this regard,
we
had
an
external
consultant
compile
an
environmental-exposure register for the site. The results
show that operation of the plants does not impact the
preservation and development goals of the reserve near
the site.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

An appraisal was conducted in advance to assess how
remediating the Alz canal (German-language version only)
in 2016 would impact the aquatic ecology, as well as
nature conservancy and species diversity at the
Burghausen site. We used an extensive monitoring
program and risk management to ensure that the altered
discharge conditions would have no negative impact on
the waterway ecology. In collaboration with nature
conservation authorities and an assessor, we constructed
protective fences for reptiles as protection and new stone
and sand areas as permanent retreat options for sand
lizards. Ecological monitoring of the stated protective
measures for waterway ecology and for animals and plants
accompanied the entire construction and clean-up phase.

Naturnahe Alz e.V.
Eight ChemDelta Bavaria companies came together to
establish the Naturnahe Alz (Natural Alz) association
(German-language version only) in 2015. Based in
Burgkirchen, the environmental initiative’s aim is to support
Bavaria in the environmental restoration of the Alz River
and enhancing its ecosystem in the long term. Wacker
Chemie AG is one of the founding members. In close
collaboration with Traunstein’s water management agency,
the association supports the ecological restoration of the
Alz from the town of Trostberg to where it flows into the Inn
river. In April 2016, the association donated €100,000.

59

Production and Safety - Plant and Transport Safety

Wildlife Conservation: Projects in the
USA

Habitat Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at WorkSM certificate in
the period under review, and was also nominated for the
WHC Conservation Award 2017.

A group of employees at our US site in Adrian (Michigan)
has set up nesting boxes for various species of bird and
maintains a 2.0-km nature trail. The 97-hectare site also
features native wildflower and butterfly gardens. An
outdoor area of almost 81 hectares has been certified for
the conservation of wildlife. The employees are dedicated
to nature and wildlife conservation. For its dedication, the
Adrian team was once again awarded the US Wildlife

At our new US site in Charleston, Tennessee, we have
renaturalized South Mouse Creek and planted around 800
trees along 490 meters of riverbank. The project involved
preserving the natural habitat of the riverside and naturally
filtering the water of South Mouse Creek, which is situated
at the end of the Cleveland watershed.

Plant and Transport Safety
GRI 306-4

Operating plants and processes in a manner that poses no
risk to people or the environment is an important objective
at WACKER. To this end, we have installed a groupwide
safety management system that addresses both workplace
and plant safety.

60

Prevention
Risk Management
The first step in ensuring plant safety is to systematically
identify risks and assess them. This includes analyzing
how well we control the energy present in a process (e.g.
pressure, heat) and determining the effect that a single
error might have on a chain of events that could lead to the
escape of a substance or to an accident. On completion of
this comprehensive analysis, we specify safety measures
to prevent undesirable incidents.
Safety Training & Inspections
WACKER attaches particular importance to providing its
safety experts with ongoing training. We hold regular
training sessions, for example, on plant safety and
explosion-damage protection. Group experts organize
safety training at WACKER sites, including those outside
Germany. During 2015, we also audited the US sites in
Adrian, Calvert City and Eddyville. Safety experts from
Germany assisted with commissioning of the new
Charleston site. In 2016, our regional focus was on Europe,
where we reviewed, for example, the safety management
system in place at the Stetten and Halle sites in Germany,
and examined silicon-metal production at Holla in Norway.
Experts from Germany provided their colleagues in China
with several weeks of plant-safety training.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Low accident figures are a reflection of safety-conscious
conduct. At WACKER, we give special recognition to
facilities that operate for sustained periods of time without
a reportable accident. Some of these have also been
honored by institutions outside the company.
WACKER Greater China supports other chemical
companies in establishing process-safety systems.
WACKER partnered with the Zhangjiagang Free Trade
Zone and the National Center for International Cooperation
in Work Safety (NCICS) in order to hold around 31
process-safety training courses for 83 companies during
the reporting period. 710 participants attended these
courses in Zhangjiagang and Nanjing.
Transport Safety
WACKER ensures that its products are safely stored and
transported, We carefully inspect vehicles before loading
them, especially if hazardous goods are involved. In 2016,
we had inspections carried out on over 9,500 trucks (2015:
over 7,000). If a vehicle fails an inspection, we refuse to
deploy it until the defects have been remedied. Failure
rates have been low for years now. In 2016, the rate was
about 1.3 percent for hazardous goods shipments in
Germany (2015: 1.5 percent). WACKER regularly audits its
hazardous goods shippers.
We rely on well-trained personnel for transport safety, too.
In 2015 and 2016, our workforce in Germany alone
completed around 2,200 classroom training courses on the
safe transportation of hazardous goods and some 1,900
online courses about securing freight.
We regularly review aspects of transport safety with our
logistics providers, e.g. during the annual Supplier Day.
If deficiencies are found, we agree on improvements and
then follow up on their implementation. When selecting

Production and Safety - Plant and Transport Safety

logistics service providers and evaluating their
performance, WACKER uses in-house criteria and
internationally recognized systems, such as the Safety and
Quality Assessment System (SQAS) operated by the
European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). Our
evaluation criteria include drivers’ qualifications and
training, vehicle equipment and accident response.
Through the use of standards and specifications, WACKER
ensures that even the subcontractors working for our
logistics providers meet our stringent safety requirements.
For products that have a high hazard potential, we use
packaging and tanks of the highest quality. Wherever
possible, we assess the road route to be taken by the
transport.
We recorded a total of 20 transport incidents in 2015 and
2016. This number includes not only accidents and
incidents involving the distribution of our intermediates and
products where we commissioned the transport, but also
incidents that do not involve hazardous goods, as well
as those that do not adversely impact on people or the
environment. These incidents, too, form part of our shipper
assessments.
Transport Accidents
Number of Accidents

2016

2015

2014

Road

2

10

5

Rail

4

2

2

Sea

–

1

1

Inland waterways

1

–

–

Air

–

–

–

Incident Management
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

Our safety management focuses on prevention. However,
safety-critical events cannot always be avoided. We use
SPIRIT, our new IT sustainability reporting system, to
register all groupwide incidents relating to safety, health
and the environment. The reports are evaluated and
measures taken. Where other divisions and sites could
learn from incidents, reports are compiled and submitted
to corporate entities with similar risk potential.
Since 2016, employees in Germany have been able to
use the idea management system to quickly and easily
report safety-critical situations. As a result, hazards can be

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

avoided at an early stage before they lead to an accident.
Safety-critical situations are also reported in all our other
regions and recorded across the Group.
Every WACKER site has its emergency response plan
detailing cooperation between internal and external
emergency response teams and the authorities. Once a
year, the plant fire departments at our largest sites,
Burghausen and Nünchritz, conduct emergency drills
coordinated with the local fire and emergency services.
These drills provide a practical opportunity to rehearse a
large-scale emergency response. Afterward, the exercise
is analyzed to identify and eliminate any weak points.
Training drills are regularly carried out at our major foreign
sites, too, such as Charleston (USA) and Zhangjiagang and
Nanjing (China).
Not only do WACKER’s plant fire departments train fire
departments from the local area – they also invite the
fire departments of other companies and municipalities
to WACKER sites, where they can prepare their response
to accidents involving hazardous goods. If necessary, we
support local fire departments during large-scale
emergency responses. Our plant fire departments were
called out in this way five times in 2015 and 21 times in
2016.
TUIS: Accident Assistance
The German chemical industry established its Transport
Accident Information and Emergency Response System
(TUIS; German-language webpage only) in 1981 to provide
assistance in the event of chemical accidents. WACKER
was involved in this network right from the start. Today,
TUIS comprises some 130 chemical companies, along with
their plant fire departments and specialists (chemists,
toxicologists, production experts, etc). Public services,
such as fire departments, police and disaster control
agencies, can contact TUIS for telephone consultation
services or request specialized equipment or assistance
from experts. TUIS is part of the German chemical
industry’s contribution to the Responsible Care® initiative.
WACKER’s TUIS experts can be called on to assist with
accidents involving our products anywhere in the world.
WACKER Fireﬁghters’ Activities for TUIS

Stage 1 Expert advice by phone
Stage 2 Expert advice at accident
scene
Stage 3 Technical assistance at
accident scene
Total

2016

2015

2014

17

19

38

1

3

1

5

3

6

23

25

45

61

Production and Safety - Plant and Transport Safety

Accidents and Incidents

basin or the sewer system and was eliminated by in-plant
wastewater treatment facilities.

GRI 403-2

We depict the number of safety-relevant and
environmentally relevant incidents in relation to 1 million
hours worked. This performance indicator, which we call
the WACKER Process Safety Incident Rate or WPSIR, is
tracked across the group so that we can improve our
safety management record. The increase in our WPSIR
during the reporting period is due to two factors. First, our
new sustainability reporting IT system (SPIRIT) has enabled
us since 2015 to record and categorize incidents more
effectively than in the past. Second, commissioning of the
Charleston site (USA) led, in particular, to a rise in the
number of incidents during 2016.

No matter how many preventive measures are taken,
accidents and environmentally relevant incidents can never
be completely ruled out. At WACKER, we make sure we
learn from such events to prevent their recurrence.
We use the criteria of the European Chemical Industry
Council (Cefic) to assess safety and environmentally
relevant events (see diagram). These include substance
spills, fires and explosions, as well as incidents that have
no adverse impact on people or the environment, e.g.
if all of a spilled substance was contained by the catch
Evaluation of Events According to Cefic Criteria

Was a chemical substance or a No
chemical process directly
involved in the damage caused?

Incident

Yes

No
GHS classification1

Did the incident occur in production, distribution, storage, No
utilities, pilot plants or laboratories within the site boundaries of a company’s facility?

62

Toxic and CMR
substances2

Yes
Was there a release of
material or energy (e.g.
fire, explosion, implosion) from a chemical
process unit that resulted in…

No

No
Damage
> €25,000
of direct
costs to the
company

…an injury with lost time
or hospitalization (≥ 24 h)
or a fatality of any
people on or off site?

Yes

Yes

Acutely toxic

H300, H310,
H330 and
combinations

Carcinogenic,
Toxic to reproduction,
Mutagenic

H340, H350,
H350i, H360,
H360D, H360F,
H360FD,
H360Fd, H360Df

STOT: specific
target organ toxicity

H370
Substances
with any H
phrases starting with “2”

Environmental hazards

Substances
with any H
phrases starting with “4”
≥ 5 kg

≥ 100 kg
Yes

Relevant incident (WPSI)
GHS = Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals
CMR = substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction
3 H phrases = describe hazards emitted by chemical substances or formulations;
H phrases that begin with: 2 = physical hazards, 3 = health hazards, 4 = environmental hazards
2

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Substances
with any
other H
phrases3

Physical hazards

Thresholds
(8h rule applies)

1

GHS
substances

Yes

Substances
without
classification

Substances
without
GHS
classification

≥ 2,000 kg
Yes

Production and Safety - Plant and Transport Safety

Safety and Environmentally-Relevant Incidents1
2016

2015

20142

Group

46

35

22

Groupwide environment- and
safety-related incidents
per 1 million hours worked3

1.6

1.2

0.8

1

According to criteria laid down by Cefic

2

Group evaluation began in the second half of 2014

3

WACKER Process Safety Incident Rate (WPSIR)

63

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Pr
Products
oducts
65

Product Safety

69

Environmental Compatibility

70

Research and Development

73

Sustainable Products

Products

Pr
Products
oducts
WACKER ensures that all of its products, if used correctly,
are free of any risk to health or the environment. We seek
to identify possible risks to health and the environment
throughout a product’s entire life cycle – from the R&D
stage through to production, use and disposal.

Responsible stewardship is one of the ways we contribute
to the United Nations’ sustainable development goals
(SDGs). Our products come into play in the implementation
of, for example, SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy,”
SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure” and SDG
13 “Climate Action.”

Product Safety
GRI 102-2, GRI 102-12, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 416-1

WACKER provides information on the safe use of its
products and is continually working to prevent or reduce
the use of substances which are harmful to human health
or the environment in products. We pursue this aim in a
number of ways:
We try to replace harmful ingredients with alternative
substances.
In the absence of an alternative, we restrict the sale of
products containing harmful substances to commercial
and industrial customers wherever possible.
We develop innovative alternatives to conventional
products containing harmful substances.
As a guide for our product developers, we maintain a
list of about 550 substances that WACKER products may
no longer contain. In addition to prohibited and restricted
chemicals (such as materials listed in REACH Appendices
XIV and XVII), these also include substances that are the
subject of heated public debate or undesired by individual
companies. We avoid substances that are on the European
Chemicals Agency’s List of Substances of Very High
Concern (SVHC).

Product Information
We continually update our product information and
constantly revise our risk assessments – which relate, for
example, to safety aspects and environmental impacts –
to promptly take account of new findings. When there are
new findings that have to be included in the substance
safety report to comply with REACH requirements, we
adapt our risk assessments accordingly.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

When advertising our products and services, we make sure
that our brochures, for example, contain verifiable data and
precise, legally-compliant terminology and wording that
reflect current scientific knowledge.
The following are a few examples of how our advertising
provides product sustainability information:
Our “Polysilicon – Before There Is Solar Energy There
Is WACKER” brochure describes how WACKER’s
hyperpure polysilicon makes it possible to manufacture
efficient solar cells.
We present examples of applications for medical and
rehab purposes in a brochure on ELASTOSIL®
(German-language version only) and in a video.
We describe the use of VINNEX® as an additive for
bioplastics, particularly biopolyester, in a brochure.

Material Safety Data Sheets
Only some 40 percent of WACKER products require a
material safety data sheet (MSDS) by law. We go beyond
these requirements and compile these sheets for all our
sales products – not just for those classified as hazardous
substances. WACKER publishes over 75,000 material
safety data sheets in up to 37 languages.
WACKER publishes a wide range of information in its
material safety data sheets to ensure that substances and
mixtures are handled correctly:
Designations of substances and mixtures
Potential risks
Composition and information about ingredients
First-aid measures
Fire-fighting measures
Response in the event of accidental release
Handling and storage

65

Products - Product Safety

Restriction and monitoring of exposure; personal
protective equipment
Physical and chemical properties
Stability and reactivity
Toxicological data
Environmental data
Notes on disposal
Transportation guidelines
Legislation
Other information

Nanomaterials
There is no standard definition to date for the term
“nanomaterial” as far as regulatory issues are concerned,
and there are no standardized specifications for analysis
methods. WACKER continues to identify nanomaterials on
the basis of the EU recommendation for defining these
materials (2011/696/EU); this recommendation, in turn, is
based on the ISO TC 229 “Nanotechnologies” standard.

66

Nanomaterials can possess innovative properties that
significantly enhance products and processes. What is true
of all chemical substances also applies to nanomaterials:
the possible risk of inhalation, dermal or oral exposure to
production staff and users must be taken into account.
Nanomaterials do not pose a hazard per se. Their specific
properties may entail effects on health that might chiefly be
caused by the inhalation of particulate, fibrous or plate-like
nanomaterials.
Based on existing studies, absorption through the skin is
considered less relevant, as only minimal, if any, dermal
resorption was observed in most cases. (German
Hazardous Substances Committee (AGS), Announcement
on Hazardous Substances, BekGS 527, “Manufactured
Nanomaterials” (German-language version only) dated
June 2016.) The biodurability or solubility of nanomaterials
in biological media represents a key criterion in their hazard
analysis. If such materials are highly soluble, a
conventional hazard analysis can be performed.
All the nanomaterials that we produce or use have been
recorded and their hazards and risks assessed. We have
created an internal measurement strategy to assign
products based on uniform standards. Most of these
products are nanostructured – a classification that includes
materials whose internal structures are nanoscale
(between 1 and 100 nanometers), but whose external
dimensions are greater than the nano-range.
These nanostructured products include HDK® pyrogenic
silica, a powder that we have sold as a thickening agent,
filler and flow enhancer for over 40 years. The HDK®

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

product group is part of the synthetic amorphous silica
(SAS) substance class. We have collaborated with external
scientific institutes to examine its physicochemical
properties in detail, and extensive toxicological,
eco-toxicological and epidemiological data are available.
Due to its high solubility (> 100 mg/l), HDK® is eliminated
rapidly from the lung and, unlike biodurable nanomaterials,
consequently does not exhibit any long-term effects after
inhalation.
We collaborated with the Technical University of Dresden
to compile standard operating procedures on the
granulometric characterization of SAS (specifically
WACKER’s HDK®) and on the examination of its dustiness.
In the course of this partnership, we also validated
methods
for
measuring
nanoparticle
number
concentrations. We investigated the potential release of
nanoparticles from HDK® at our labs and at our HDK®
production facility, finding no evidence of relevant HDK®
nanoparticle release.
During the current reporting period, we continued
exploring the issue of nanomaterials, working in national
and international committees and task forces. As part of
these efforts, we pay particular attention to nano-specific
regulatory requirements (such as national nanoproduct
registers and specific REACH requirements), which we
implement accordingly. We inform our customers of how
our products are classified and of issues relating to
regulatory compliance.

Genetic Engineering
The chemical industry is increasingly falling back on
biotech processes to ensure its products are manufactured
sustainably. WACKER is among the companies that exploit
the potential of modern molecular biology and genetic
engineering methods to produce high-value specialty and
performance chemicals right through to complex proteins
based on renewable raw materials. For instance, we use a
genetically optimized E. coli system (ESETEC®) to produce
pharmaceutical proteins as highly specific active
ingredients for drugs.
We also prioritize safety when using genetically modified
techniques in that we comply with laws and regulations,
industry-wide standards and our own rigorous internal
safety provisions. We handle genetically engineered
organisms solely in closed systems, which prevents
anything from being released into the atmosphere.
WACKER itself does not make any genetically modified
substances, nor does it distribute them.

Products - Product Safety

REACH
REACH legislation, which came into force in 2007, governs
the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction
of chemicals within the European Union. Comprehensive
data are gathered through REACH, REACH imposes high
requirements on the manufacturers, importers and users of
chemical products. All substances on the European market
that are used or imported in annual quantities exceeding
one metric ton must be registered and evaluated. The
scope of evaluation work is largely determined by the
quantity produced or imported and the expected risks.
Particularly high-risk substances are subject to regulatory
approval.

Total of 192 Registration Dossiers
Submitted as Part of REACH
As part of REACH, WACKER had submitted 192
registration dossiers to the European Chemicals Agency
(ECHA) by late 2016. For some of the phase-one and
phase-two dossiers, submitted in 2010 and 2013, ECHA
required additional information, which we provided in
2016.

As part of China REACH, we submitted 94 registration
dossiers to the Chinese environment ministry by late 2016,
while 610 such dossiers were filed in Taiwan.
WACKER’s close contact with its suppliers extends to
matters relating to their preregistrations for REACH and
their already completed registrations. To obtain
authoritative information, we systematically ask our
suppliers about their registration status and the further
availability of raw materials, especially in view of the
expiration of the final registration phase for phase-in
substances on May 31, 2018. Even after this deadline
expires, our global supply chains will continue to make it
necessary to ask about the above issues.
REACH demands extensive information about the
properties of chemical products – which necessitates an
increase in mandatory animal testing. WACKER makes
every effort to avoid animal testing and only performs
ECHA-required tests. Whenever possible, we use
recognized alternative methods, such as in-vitro tests. We
classify substances with similar properties into groups for
testing and work within REACH consortia to exchange
scientific data with other companies.

67

European Chemicals Agency’s REACH Schedule: Deadlines for Submitting Dossiers

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

REACH takes effect

R50 / 53 substances3 (>100 t/a)

Registration1

CMR substances4 (>1 t/a)

Phase-in substances5
(> 1,000 t/a)

Preregistration 2

Jun

Jun Dec

Dec

5

Phase-in substances
(100 – 1,000 t/a)

Jun

Phase-in substances5
(1 – 100 t/a)

Jun

European Chemicals Agency’s REACH Schedule: Deadlines for Submitting Dossiers
1 New substances >1 metric ton/year
2 Phase-in substances >1 metric ton/year
3 R50/53 substances: “highly toxic to aquatic organisms” and “may have long-term harmful effects in bodies of water”
4 CMR substances: carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction
5 Phase-in substances: predominantly old substances listed on the EINECS inventory (European Inventory of Existing Commercial Chemical
Substances on the market before 1981)

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Products - Product Safety

GPS
The ICCA (International Council of Chemical Associations)
has developed the Global Product Strategy (GPS), which
is a guideline on how to assess chemical properties and
provide product safety information. In Europe, most GPS
requirements are satisfied by REACH and by CLP
(Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and
Mixtures). Manufacturers are asked to publish descriptions
written in layman’s terms on the safe and environmentally
sound use of chemicals (Safety Summaries). By the end of
2016, we had published 75 Safety Summaries on the ICCA
chemicals website for the substances we registered under
REACH.

GHS
GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and
Labeling of Chemicals) is a United Nations initiative for
harmonizing the classification and labeling of hazardous
substances. It is up to individual countries to decide
whether to adopt the system, and, if so, which modules
to accept, and when. GHS was introduced to Europe in
January 2009 with the European Regulation on the
Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and

Mixtures (the CLP Regulation). More information on this
regulation is available online from the European
Commission.
By 2015, we reclassified our mixtures pursuant to EU GHS
(7,000 mixtures). The ECHA has set up a central
classification and labeling register for hazardous
substances. We have been registering all relevant
substances here since 2011. The cost to WACKER of
changing to GHS came to around €4 million. This system
switchover required us to check, reclassify and relabel
every product, as well as reclassify tens of thousands
of substances and mixtures, change material safety data
sheets and redesign hazardous substance labels to
accommodate the new symbols and hazard information.
We provide our employees with online training and a wide
range of informative literature on GHS. Not only production
and laboratory workers (who handle GHS-labeled
chemicals on a daily basis) must attend certain mandatory
courses, but also, for example, safety officers (who prepare
SOPs). Employees who label vessels, piping and
equipment have to attend these courses as well.

68
Overview of Hazard Symbols in the EU

Old hazardous substance symbols valid until 2015

New hazardous substance symbols valid since 2010

Explosive

Acute toxicity
Categories 1 to 3

Flammable,
self-reactive

Irritant, specific target
organ toxicity Category 3,
acute toxicity Category 4

Oxidizer

Gas under pressure

Dermal sensitizer,
specific target organ
toxicity Categories 1 and 2

Corrosive

Hazardous to the
aquatic environment

By mid-2015, the GHS Regulation on the Classification and Labeling of Chemicals had replaced the previous orange hazard symbols in Europe
with new symbols consisting of a white square set at a point in a red frame.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Products - Environmental Compatibility

Environmental
Compatibility
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 416-2

WACKER takes environmental, health and safety criteria
into account at every stage of the product life cycle. In
research and development projects, we examine the
sustainability aspects of our new products and processes,
starting with the raw materials used. We try to minimize
raw-material consumption while selecting materials that
offer maximum ecological benefit. Our products are
generally supplied to business customers for further
processing – not directly to end customers.

Our life cycle assessments (LCAs) look at the
environmental impact caused by a specific product family
throughout its life cycle – a “cradle-to-gate” assessment
extending from manufacturing to the factory gate that
allows us to gauge the sustainability of our products and
production processes, and to improve them accordingly.
Our evaluations factor in the material, water and energy
consumption of a product, as well as its ecotoxicity, over
the entire life cycle. With the help of the WACKER
ECOWHEEL®, we identify key sustainability topics and,
together with our customers, set priorities for research
projects.
WACKER ECOWHEEL®

fU
End o

Pr

cy

od

Re

uc

M

se

an

ufa

ECOWHEE L®

ti o n

D i s po s al

ate
-G
to

K E R P r o d u ct i o n

Ec Su
o

69

WA C

in
g

Pa
ck
ag

R

Raw (Natu
Ma ra
t

e-

3

an
d

l) als
i
er

Crad
l

g
tin
or ities
pp ctiv
A

als

es
rc
ou
es

2
7

Raw
Ma
ter
i

ort
nsp
Tra

1

c tu rin g

Product Life Cycles

er
to

ng

m

c li

U s e P h a se
Cu

6

Us e

4

Appli

c a ti

s

on

5
Material

Water

Energy

Ecotoxicity

1 Raw materials and resources
2 Production at WACKER
3 Factory gate / shipment
4 Production at the customer
5 End-product manufacturing
6 Phase of use by end consumer
7 Recycling / disposal

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

During the reporting period, WACKER POLYMERS updated
the life-cycle assessment data for dispersions and for
dispersible polymer powders. The division made additional
progress toward replacing APEO-based surfactants
(alkylphenol ethoxylates) in its product range.
By optimizing production processes, we have successfully
reduced the percentage of volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) in numerous dispersions and dispersible polymer
powders. The following are some examples from our
business divisions:

Products - Research and Development

In 2015, we launched our VINNAPAS® CEZ 3031
dispersion for use as a binder in environmentally
friendly interior and exterior paints and plasters.
VINNAPAS® EP 3360 ULS is a VAE (vinyl
acetate-ethylene copolymer) dispersion that we began
offering in early 2016 for high-quality, environmentally
friendly interior paints in the Asia-Pacific region and in
the Middle East and Africa.
Development teams at WACKER SILICONES are
among those working with an eye to reducing VOCs,
offering products such as LUMISIL® LR 7601, in which
the amount of volatiles has been significantly reduced.
The plastics industry uses this highly transparent grade

of liquid silicone rubber for applications such as optical
lenses, sensors and lighting technology elements.
We have also substantially reduced the amount of
volatiles in ELASTOSIL® LR 5040, a grade of liquid
silicone rubber used in the plastics industry for
baby-care products, medical technology and food
processing, among other applications.
Gypsum dry-mix mortars formulated with SILRES® BS
Powder S can be mixed very quickly without generating
any dust. Because it is environmentally compatible and
releases neither alcohol nor volatile organic
compounds (VOCs), this additive is suitable for use
indoors.

Research and Development
GRI 103-1, GRI 201-4, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

WACKER’s research and development pursues three
goals:

70

Firstly, we contribute to the market success of our
customers by searching for solutions that meet their
needs.
Secondly, we optimize our processes in order to be the
technology leader and to operate sustainably.
We concentrate on creating innovative products and
applications for new markets and on serving future
trends, such as the increase in mobility, urbanization
and digitalization, and growing prosperity.

processed, for instance, into items such as food
packaging materials, disposable flatware, parts for
electronic appliances and self-degradable gardening
and agricultural containers.
Most of the €183.4 million (2015: €175.3 million) in R&D
costs was spent on the development of new products
and production processes. WACKER scientists worked on
some 300 projects based on more than 30 technology
platforms during the reporting period. WACKER operates
in highly promising fields, ranging from energy recovery
and storage, electronics, automotive engineering and
construction to household, medical, health-care and
cosmetics products to food and biotechnology.
Breakdown of R&D Expenditures

Research along the Supply Chain
In our research and development projects, we examine
the sustainability of our new products and processes. The
following are some examples of our use of raw materials
that benefit the environment:
Novel silicone resins are replacing organic binders in
composites, and we are avoiding organic solvents in
the manufacture of such resins.
In the VINNEX® product family, WACKER offers a
binder system for bioplastics, allowing manufacturers
to process polymers based on renewable resources
just as they would standard thermoplastics. The
system improves the physical properties of the
bioplastics and makes them compatible with each
other. The impact strength and melt strength of these
polymer blends are high, and they are more flexible
than conventional biopolymers. They can be

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

38% Process and product optimization
31% Product development
18% Technology development
13% Basic research

Products - Research and Development

Publicly Funded Research Projects
Some of our research projects are subsidized by
government grants:
The OPERA (Organic Phosphor for Efficient Remote
LED Applications) project was completed in 2016. The
objective of OPERA, for which the EU provided
€850,000 in funding, was to develop LED-based optical
components that could enhance luminous efficacy by
means of remote phosphor technology (separation of
the LED chip from the phosphor layer that generates
the white light) and serve as a substitute for daylight,
among other applications. Between 2013 and 2016,
six project partners from Germany, Finland and the
Netherlands developed novel optical components for
the scattering, reflection and transmission of light.
The Federal Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF) subsidizes research related to the energy
transition. This includes the iC4 (Integrated Carbon
Capture,
Conversion
and
Cycling)
project
(German-language version only), which received
€6.3 million in funding between 2012 and 2015. The
project aimed to use surplus green electricity for water
electrolysis, with the resulting hydrogen converted to
methane gas using carbon dioxide and then stored in
the gas grid. WACKER, Clariant, E.ON, Linde, MAN
and Siemens were involved in the project, as were
the Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and
Biotechnology and eight institutes at the Technical
University of Munich. WACKER headed two of the four
subprojects.
The goal of the SafeBatt project was to develop battery
components that would increase the safety and
reliability of lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) for electric
vehicles. Between 2012 and 2015, 14 project partners
from industry and the scientific community developed
materials, models, test methods, sensors and
evaluation electronics. The Federal Ministry of
Education and Research (BMBF) provided funding for
SafeBatt in the amount of €19 million. WACKER’s work
in this group focused on silicon-containing additives
that would improve fire safety for lithium-ion batteries.
The Alpha-Laion consortium project (German-language
version only) developed high-energy traction batteries
for electric vehicles between 2012 and 2015. Bosch
headed the project, and the other partners were
WACKER, BASF, SGL, BMW and Daimler. In this
project, WACKER developed silicon-containing anode
materials. Alpha-Laion was funded with €13 million by
the then Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology
(BMWi).
Silicone films can play a pivotal role in the conversion
of wave power into electricity. Led by Robert Bosch

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

GmbH, an industrial/R&D consortium developed the
basic principles underlying wave farms as part of the
EPoSil project (German-language version only), for
which the German Federal Ministry of Education and
Research (BMBF) had provided €2 million in funding
up until January of 2015. As a member of the project,
WACKER was responsible for developing and
manufacturing ELASTOSIL® Film, which is a precision
silicone film.

Our R&D Workforce
WACKER conducts R&D at two levels: centrally at our
Corporate Research & Development department and
locally within our business divisions. Corporate R&D
coordinates activities on a company-wide basis and
involves other departments, such as Corporate
Engineering (during process development). We also use
a management process to keep our R&D projects
transparent throughout the Group. We manage our product
and process innovations Group-wide in Project System
Innovation (PSI), a project management system in which
we systematically evaluate customer benefit, sales
potential, profitability and technology position.
WACKER had 1,060 research and development staff in
2016 (2015: 1,043), which represents 6.2 percent (2015:
6.1 percent) of the Group’s workforce. We also present
awards to honor the work of our researchers:
The Alexander Wacker Innovation Award, a €10,000
prize bestowed annually since 2006, recognizes
excellence in categories alternating between product
innovation, process innovation and basic research. In
2016, WACKER honored a team of four researchers in
the process innovation category for their development
of our new 3D printing process for manufacturing
printed silicone parts. Our 3D printing technology,
launched under the ACEO® brand, uses the
“drop-on-demand” method, in which the printer head
deposits tiny silicone droplets on a substrate. Layer
by layer, the droplets become the workpiece, which
ultimately does not differ much from injection-molded
parts. Customer sectors for 3D printing include medical
technology, the automotive industry (e.g. for
prototypes) and the aerospace industry.
WACKER presented the 2015 Alexander Wacker
Innovation Award in the product innovation category to
a Burghausen-based researcher who had developed a
process for producing ultrathin silicone films. As thin
as 10 micrometers, these precision films with their
dielectric (non-conducting) properties provide the basis
for innovative products in such areas as electronics,
robotics, sensors and medical technology.

71

Products - Research and Development

Siltronic AG confers its Inventor Award, also endowed
with €10,000, on employees who have produced
technological innovation. The 2016 prize went to a
team of two Burghausen employees and one from the
Freiberg site, who had developed a new pp epitaxial
wafer that is harder and exhibits less tension within
the crystal lattice. The electronic components
manufactured from these wafers perform better as a
result. Siltronic AG presented the 2015 Inventor Award
to employees who had developed simulations resulting
in higher yields and improved defect control during the
silicon-crystal pulling process.

Collaboration with Customers and
Research Institutes
Our business divisions conduct application-driven R&D,
focusing on new processes for producing polycrystalline
silicon and on product and process innovations in
biotechnology and in silicone and polymer chemistry. We
collaborate with customers, scientific institutions and
universities to achieve successful research results more
quickly and efficiently.

72

In 2016, WACKER worked together with more than 40
international research institutes on three continents on
some 44 research projects (2015: 40 research projects).
Our collaborative efforts cover topics that include
electricity storage and process simulation and
development. In 2015, we cooperated with universities in
Braunschweig, Munich and Münster on electricity storage
projects.
Our WACKER ACADEMY locations serve as a platform for
sharing industry-specific knowledge between customers,
distributors and WACKER experts. The focus here is on
providing training tailored to specific industries, such as
the cosmetics, construction and paints sectors, for
applications in our WACKER POLYMERS and WACKER
SILICONES business divisions. The training centers’
proximity to our development and test laboratories
promotes the sharing of ideas and enables participants to
conduct practical on-site tests. We ensure our seminars
remain state of the art through our work with our own
internal application technology and research facilities, as
well as with universities and institutes.

Research for Sustainable Development
Energy from the Sun
Polysilicon for photovoltaics
Heat-transfer fluids for solar power plants

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Energy from Wind and Water
Wind power: additives for more robust turbine blades
Electroactive polymers for wave power plants
Energy Storage and Conservation
Active materials for lithium-ion batteries
Thermal insulation materials for housing construction

Corporate R&D Research Projects
We have set a new research focus on the chemistry of
low-valence silicon. The Institute of Silicon Chemistry at
the Technical University of Munich is working on this topic,
with the aim of implementing the findings in industrial
applications such as catalysis in the medium to long term.
Our research and development work on silicon-containing
anode-active materials for lithium-ion batteries have
advanced to a stage where we now fulfill the market
requirements for capacity and stability of charge-discharge
cycles in the next generation of batteries. We submit our
materials to global technology leaders for testing.
In our silicone copolymer technology platform, we are
focused on manufacturing processes and additives for
plastics. Here we are improving the properties of casting
resins and optimizing processes for the extrusion of
plastics, employing renewable raw materials such as wood
as fillers, in particular.
Our ESETEC® 2.0 process delivers an efficient method for
producing high yields of antibody fragments for medical
therapies. One big step achieved by our research on this
system was the development of an element that permits
stable fermentation without the usual addition of
antibiotics.

WACKER SILICONES Innovations
During the reporting period, WACKER SILICONES research
teams focused on new materials for electrical insulation
and heat management to improve conductivity in
electronics applications. The division is also working on
electroactive silicone polymers (EAPs) for sensors and
actuators.
Silicones featuring enhanced adhesive strength and gentle
removal offer better wound care and targeted delivery of
actives. We have developed skin-compatible SILPURAN®
silicone gels for advanced wound dressings. One variation
of these dressings contains plasma, a substance that kills
microbes and multiresistant bacteria, and promotes
healing.

Products - Sustainable Products

WACKER SILICONES research during the reporting period
also focused on our method for using silicones in 3D
printing. They can be used to manufacture components for
the automotive industry, for medical or optical applications
and for household-care products.
We are also developing defoaming agents for pulp and
paper manufacturing that remain effective longer at lower
concentrations. Our research has discovered new uses for
silicone resins as binders, for example in mineral wool or
artificial stone, including for use outdoors.

WACKER POLYMERS: A Focus on
Low-Emission Products
Research within WACKER POLYMERS focuses on
polymers that enable the formulation of low-emission
downstream products. We have developed or enhanced
products that contain no alkylphenol-modified surfactants
(APEOs), are low in volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
and are largely free of formaldehyde. Examples include
dispersible
polymer
powders
using
VAE
(vinyl
acetate-ethylene copolymers) for cement applications as
well as products based on VAE dispersions, e.g. for
coating carpets and for sealants.

New Technologies at WACKER
BIOSOLUTIONS
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS has successfully implemented
its ESETEC® 2.0 process to manufacture an antibody
fragment for MedImmune, the global biologics research
and development arm of AstraZeneca. The high
productivity and simple purification processes offered by
our technology help speed up the process of providing
new medications to patients.

The division’s new CANDY2GUM® technology enables the
addition of water-based, fat-containing and natural
ingredients such as fruit juice, cocoa and coffee in a boiling
process to produce chewy candy that turns into chewing
gum during consumption. We have developed 3D printing
for chewing gum, making customizable shapes possible.

WACKER POLYSILICON Invests in
Energy Efﬁciency
WACKER
POLYSILICON’s
newly
commissioned
production site in the US state of Tennessee is equipped
with an energy-efficient generation of deposition reactors
delivering higher output. Technological progress in the
development of solar modules is proceeding by leaps and
bounds. Our customers have steadily reduced both cutting
waste and wafer thicknesses.
This has been paralleled by an increase in cell efficiency.
The highest cell efficiencies can be achieved only with
hyperpure polycrystalline silicon of the kind produced by
WACKER POLYSILICON. Cell efficiency is over 18 percent
for multicrystalline standard cells and around 20 percent
for monocrystalline cells. High-efficiency monocrystalline
cells have efficiency levels ranging from over 20 to as
much as 25 percent. At the same time, our customers
are continuously enhancing the efficiency of their modules,
with commercial solar modules performing at efficiencies
as high as 22 percent.
The energy payback time – the service life of a photovoltaic
module required to generate the energy expended for its
manufacture – varies by geographical location from six
months (in the Sahara) to 18 months (in northern Europe).

Sustainable Products
GRI 302-5

As one of our five corporate objectives, we emphasize
sustainability in the product life cycle – from the raw
material to its use by our customer:
Raw Materials
Silicones for polymers that are not based on crude oil
Renewable sources possible
Sustainable procurement strategy

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Processes
Designed to save energy and resources
Recycling within production
Products for the Industries of Tomorrow
Solar and wind
Building insulation
Electromobility
Creating Added Value for Our Customers
Product stewardship
Increase the sustainability of customer products

73

Products - Sustainable Products

WACKER has a series of products that contribute to
sustainability in areas that will be of global importance
going forward, such as energy efficiency, urbanization and
rising living standards.

Energy
The energy sources of the future are the sun, wind, water,
biomass and geothermal power. WACKER product lines –
including products in line with SDG 7 for affordable and
clean energy – will help us use these resources efficiently.
We actively support climate-friendly mobility – whether
in battery research or as a manufacturer of high-tech
materials for electric vehicles. Specialty silicones can
withstand the higher temperatures that arise in car engines
which have been downsized to achieve better fuel
efficiency. Carbon-fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRPs) with
silicone-coated fibers are 80 percent lighter than steel.
That makes them a key component in the automotive
sector for extending the range of electric vehicles and
reducing the fuel consumption of combustion engines.

74

We have developed highly transparent liquid silicones for
lighting systems and support energy-efficient headlamp
technologies that utilize LEDs and highly transparent
grades of silicone rubber. The tremendous increases in
LED performance over the last few years has meant that
organic materials are no longer capable of withstanding
the heat and light flux. That is why high-performance LEDs
are being produced using heat- and light-resistant
silicone-based encapsulation and lens materials. In this
manner, LED components can now be manufactured in
very large quantities with modest plant and process
investment.
The generation of safe, clean power from wind also plays
a central role at WACKER. Wind turbine blades consist
of half-shells of composite materials that are bonded
together, requiring the use of special high-impact modifiers
for wind power generators. Thanks to its VENTOTEC®
impact modifiers, WACKER now offers additives for hybrid
products made of silicones and organic polymers –
additives that can make these kinds of adhesive layers
lasting and secure.
WACKER is among the main suppliers worldwide of
polysilicon for the production of solar modules. In the
reporting period, we continued to expand our production
capacity for hyperpure polysilicon to meet increasing
demand from the photovoltaic industry and to support the
switch to renewable energy sources.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Urbanization and Construction
More than half of the world’s population now lives in cities.
This creates new challenges for our communal life. We
need infrastructure that conserves resources better,
construction that is more intelligent, and materials that
are lighter. As one of the world’s leading producers of
construction chemicals, WACKER is contributing to the
development of livable cities in keeping with both SDG 9
for industry, innovation and infrastructure and SDG 13 for
climate action.
An example of considerable importance to cities in
emerging markets suffering from water shortages is the
use of waterproofing membranes based on VINNAPAS®
binders to seal canals reliably and economically, thereby
preventing water loss.
ETONIS® is an additive for pervious concrete in which the
surface has pores that absorb liquid. The use of ETONIS®
as a polymer modifier makes concrete structures last
longer in that this additive protects them from mechanical
stress and from freeze/thaw damage and road salt.
ETONIS® is also used in the construction of what are
known as sponge cities, a concept gaining importance in
countries such as China. This innovative road engineering
technique plays an important role in preventing floods
caused by heavy rainfall, especially in densely populated
urban centers, where traditional concrete renders
extensive, paved-over surfaces largely impermeable to
water. When used in road surfaces, ETONIS® also helps
reduce vehicle noise by five to eight decibels.
Dispersible Polymer Powders for Building Insulation
Saving energy – particularly in construction – is going to
be an important field of endeavor throughout the world, as
climate change will require insulating buildings from heat
as well as cold. VINNAPAS® dispersible polymer powder
ensures that adhesive mortar sticks to both the wall and
the insulation material in external thermal insulation
composite systems/exterior insulation and finish systems
(ETICS/EIFS). ETICS or EIFS consists of a multilayered
composite material in which the addition of a dispersible
polymer powder yields a lasting, stable insulation system.
The dispersible polymer powder improves both the
adhesion and the impact strength in what is known as
the embedding coat. Hydrophobizing VINNAPAS® polymer
powders are especially effective in protecting the top coat
from moisture. VINNAPAS® dispersible polymer powders
allow manufacturers to produce insulation boards
comprising different materials, including renewable
substances such as cork and wood-wool.

Products - Sustainable Products

There is enormous potential for using ETICS/EIFS technology
to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions over the long term.
Heating or air-conditioning accounts for more than half of a
building’s energy demand. In buildings that are insufficiently
insulated, a large portion of this energy is lost through the
exterior – an average loss of 25 percent for a free-standing,
single-family home. In a ten-story apartment building, 40
percent of the heating energy is lost through exterior walls
(data
for
Germany;
https://daemmen-lohnt-sich.de/
(German-language version only)).
Around 20 to 30 percent of heating energy is lost through
poorly insulated windows. ELASTOSIL® silicone rubber seals
windows, is weather-resistant and withstands temperature
fluctuations.
Dispersions for Environmentally Sound Paints
Applications for VINNAPAS® dispersions include their use as
binders for interior-wall paints. Particularly eco-friendly
dispersions are those made without substances that emit
formaldehyde or APEO-based surfactants (alkylphenol
ethoxylates), and that contain just minute amounts of volatile
organic compounds (VOCs). More and more of our dispersions
are made without any APEOs, plasticizers or solvents at all.

renovation intervals for building exteriors by up to 25 years.
Some listed buildings cannot be insulated with ETICS/EIFS
technology, making silicone resin emulsion paints one of the
few materials that will improve a building’s energy balance.

Rising Affluence
Affluence is on the rise almost all over the world, increasing
expectations as regards housing, food, health and general
convenience. WACKER is spearheading innovations to meet
these expectations sustainably. We want growth in standards
of living – particularly in emerging markets – to be supported
by our energy-saving and resource-efficient products, such
as polymers, for the paper and packaging industries, and
cyclodextrins, for foodstuffs.
Medical technology is another area in which we have
launched a few products during the reporting period:
SILPURAN® 2122 and SILPURAN® 2117 are
pressure-sensitive silicone gels that can be used for
breathable, skin-compatible wound dressings.
We have also developed the WACKER process for
Spectrila®, a microbial method for manufacturing
biologics that opens up the possibility of cost-efficient
production of a leukemia medication for children.
FOLDTEC®, our E. coli-based refolding technology,
helps
manufacturers
produce
highly
pure
pharmaceutical proteins without the use of antibiotics.

Dispersible Polymer Powders for Tile Adhesives,
Flooring and Insulation Systems
Urban centers are booming worldwide. Wherever space gets
tight, the buildings get taller, which puts new demands on
materials. Dispersible polymer powders for tile adhesives and
flooring systems help make it possible to coat untreated floors
more quickly. This is because self-leveling flooring compounds
cure more quickly and are ready for the next flooring layer
sooner (wood, tiling or carpeting). Polymer-modified tile
adhesives make it possible to install tiles of any type or size
quickly and easily. Polymer modification also reduces the
amount of material used, with little cement needed. Both
applications produce few emissions and allow our customers
to make environmentally friendly products in keeping with
environmental standards such as EMICODE® EC1 Plus or Blue
Angel.

Renewable Raw Materials
Wood-plastic composites (WPCs) are composed of up to 75
percent wood fiber (sawdust, etc.) and a thermoplastic
polymer such as polypropylene or high-density polyethylene
(HDPE). WPCs can be molded into the desired form with
modern plastic technology processes: extrusion, compacting,
thermoforming, and injection and rotational molding.
GENIOPLAST® PP is a WPC additive that substantially
improves throughput, which in turn increases energy efficiency.
Areas of application include floor coverings and automotive
interior trims.

Silicone Resins for Lasting Protection of Building
Exteriors
SILRES® BS products protect exterior paints and plasters,
making exteriors attractive for longer and better insulated, and
thus improving their energy efficiency. Silicone resin emulsion
paints (SREPs) are permeable to water vapor, which improves
the indoor environment. A coat of high-quality silicone resin
emulsion paint reduces heat loss from external walls by as
much as 40 percent. Heat is lost faster from damp walls – the
role of silicone resins is to help keep the walls dry. A SREP
coating decreases heat demand by an average of 4.6 percent.
The use of silicone resin emulsion paints and plasters extends

Conserving Water
DEHESIVE® SFX is a solvent-free silicone polymer that serves
as a highly efficient coating material for label release liners and
films. For pulp and paper manufacturing we offer PULPSIL®
968S, a silicone surfactant that improves pulp dewatering, thus
reducing water consumption and evaporation costs,
conserving energy in the process. Many people still wash their
clothes by hand in Asia, especially in the key market of India.
During the reporting period, we developed SILFOAM®
single-rinse technology – anti-foaming agent in the detergent
eliminates the need for more than one rinse step, which saves
water.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

75

Employees
77

Employment Structure

78

Personnel Development

82

Life and Careers

85

Compensation and Social Benefits

88

Employee Representation

89

Occupational Health and Safety

Employees - Employment Structure

Employment Structure
GRI 102-7, GRI 102-8, GRI 102-15, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3,
GRI 401-1, GRI 402-1, GRI 412-2

Jobs
2016

2015

2014

Group

17,205

16,972

16,703

Germany

12,138

12,251

12,366

5,067

4,721

4,337

29.5

27.8

26.0

1,084

1,195

636

6.3

7.0

3.8

International
Percentage outside Germany
New hires, groupwide
Percentage new hires, groupwide

The company follows a flexible personnel-planning
strategy in order to deal with production peaks and
economic downturns, while at the same time protecting
the permanent staff. If we must save on personnel costs,
we at first reduce the number of temporary workers. The
next phase involves not renewing fixed-term contracts.
The third step is to consider introducing short-time work in
those business divisions most affected by a downturn. All
of these measures are decided in close consultation with
employee representatives.
Temporary Workers (as of Dec. 31 Reporting Date)

Group
Of which Germany

WACKER’s headcount rose in 2015 by 1.6 percent (269
employees) and again in 2016 by 233 employees (1.4
percent). The major reasons for this growth were the
start-up of polysilicon production in Tennessee in the USA
and the increase in production at WACKER SILICONES
sites outside Germany. Siltronic continued to carry out its
productivity measures in the reporting period and reduced
the number of employees through intra-Group transfers,
phased early retirement and voluntary severance
packages.
Germany accounts for around 70 percent of employees,
while the remaining 30 percent are based elsewhere. 98
percent of WACKER employees groupwide have
permanent contracts.
Permanent and Fixed-Term Employees
2016

2015

2014

Permanent employees

16,795

16,559

16,319

Fixed-term employees

410

413

384

17,205

16,972

16,703

Group

Total

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Of which international

2016

2015

2014

712

412

527

649

358

393

63

54

134

1

Percentage temporary workers,
groupwide

1

4.1

2.4

3.2

Percentage temporary workers,
Germany

5.3

2.9

3.2

Percentage temporary workers,
international

1.2

1.1

3.1

Ratio of temporary workers to employees groupwide

WACKER regularly informs its employees regarding current
trends within and outside of the Group that could affect
business development. Employees receive up-to-date and
comprehensive information on material changes in
operations. We hereby observe the respective national and
international duties of disclosure.

77

Employees - Personnel Development

Personnel Development
Vocational Training
GRI 401-1, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-3

WACKER needs committed and skilled workers if it is to
remain innovative and competitive. We offer our employees
a favorable foundation for exploiting their potential and
further developing their skills – beginning with vocational
training all the way to a variety of advanced training
options. There are training and incentives programs
available for each qualification and career move.
Trainees
2016

2015

2014

Number of new trainees

174

178

176

Number of all trainees (all phases)

596

597

635

154

182

162

0

3

6

4.7

4.7

4.9

Thereof hired by WACKER on
completion of training
Total number of employees in
retraining

78

Trainees/retrainees as a percentage of
total WACKER Germany employees

In its personnel development activities, WACKER also
relies on vocational training. We provide training at the
Burghausen, Nünchritz, Freiberg and Munich sites in
Germany.
The principal facility is the Burghausen Vocational Training
Center (BBiW) (German-language version only), which was
established by WACKER in 1969. The BBiW offers not only
initial vocational training, but also retraining and advanced
training for young people and experienced staff. Well
known beyond the local area, the center believes that its
responsibility
extends
to
providing
training
to
non-WACKER staff from 22 partner companies. In 2016,
67 trainees from these companies started courses at the
BBiW (2015: 55).
BBiW courses cover 20 vocations. The main focus is on the
scientific and technical jobs typically encountered in the

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

chemical, electrical and metalworking sectors. Of the 596
trainees (2015: 597), 507 (2015: 514) were in scientific and
technical disciplines and 89 (2015: 83) in business-related
fields. After graduating, they have a good chance of finding
employment. In the reporting period, WACKER offered jobs
to the majority of suitable trainees. The BBiW accepted
two refugees as business trainees in 2016.
The BBiW’s vocational training is complemented by six
work/study programs to bachelor level: business
administration, business IT, applied IT, engineering
management, electrical engineering and process
engineering. Here, study at a vocational education institute
alternates with quarterly practical phases. For these
courses of study, WACKER collaborates with the
universities of Mannheim, Heidenheim and Stuttgart, which
specialize in work/study programs.
The high quality of WACKER’s training is evidenced by all
the awards won by its trainees. In 2016, the Nünchritz site
produced Saxony’s best trainee chemical technician – for
the fifth time in a row. 50 of the BBiW’s trainees and three
of its bachelor students ranked as top graduates in 2015/
2016 and received a distinction for passing their courses
with a grade of 1.5 (on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being the
best) or higher.
In 2016, we replaced our General Management Trainee
Program with a new, function-specific one. During the
18-month program, the management trainees receive
wide-ranging and flexible training in their specific
disciplines, get to know the various job profiles in their
functional areas and are specifically prepared for future
employment with our company. The groupwide program
consists of work and project stages and is based on the
requirements of the business divisions and corporate
departments. Five university graduates make up the first
generation of this new trainee program.
Siltronic continued with its graduate trainee program in the
period under review. As well as learning specifically about
wafer manufacture, participants acquire key management
skills such as adept negotiating and conflict management.
Six young graduates started the 18-month trainee program
in 2016.

Employees - Personnel Development

Advanced Training
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3

Advanced Training1
Number of Training Hours per Employee

2016

2015

2014

Standard-pay-scale employees

16.6

13.5

12.8

Above-standard-pay-scale
employees2

19.1

22.6

21.7

1

Excludes production-specific training. Includes internal and external
seminars and advanced training courses. Figures apply to WACKER
Germany.

2

Third-level management (FK3) and executive personnel (OFK)

WACKER will remain innovative and competitive as long as
it has highly-skilled employees, which is why we afford all
our employees the opportunity to participate in additional
training. Personnel development at WACKER seeks to
cultivate employees’ strengths and to target specific
groups. We encourage our employees to engage in lifelong
learning and to remain open to change – especially since
we have to adjust to longer working lives. At least once
a year, employees and supervisors discuss development
measures during performance reviews. This approach
applies to all hierarchy levels.

Employees have access to a variety of (advanced) training
courses at WACKER’s international sites as well. For
example, about 1,070 participants completed 2,130
training days at WACKER Greater China in 2016 (2015:
1,260 participants and 2,450 training days). At Wacker
Chemical Corporation in the USA, some 1,500 employees
participated in around 6,500 training days in 2016 (2015:
1,300 employees and 5,600 training days).
Training for a Diverse Workforce
Diversity and inclusion play a key role in our learning
program. Since 2016, female employees on all hierarchical
levels can take part in programs developed especially for
them. The development of women is specifically promoted
in the seminars entitled “What helps women get on” and
“Emotional intelligence: women, be more courageous!”
Different generations working together is another important
topic. We want to take advantage of the opportunities
afforded by this and are offering, for example, a new
seminar on the cooperation between baby boomers and
Generations X, Y and Z.
WACKER invested €7.9 million in personnel development
and advanced training in 2016 (2015: €7.7 million).

Talent Management and Managerial
Staff
GRI 103-2, GRI 404-2

Seminars / E-Learning Courses
Number

2016

2015

2014

Participants of seminars /
conferences / advanced training
courses

17,000

16,500

16,400

E-learning courses

82,000

66,000

74,000

Employees in Germany can select advanced training
courses from the wide range on offer under the WACKER
training program. We currently offer some 200 seminars
and training courses for a very wide range of target groups.
Approximately 140 of these seminars promote technical
skills development. Topics range from safety and
environmental protection, to quality or project
management, and on to business administration and IT.
We support employees whose work involves international
dealings by offering them seminars on language-related
and intercultural topics.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Another focus of our personnel-development activities is
identifying and grooming young potential for specialist and
management tasks. What is more, we continually develop
the skills of our current specialists and managerial staff.
The aim of our talent-management process is to identify
and foster talent at an early stage. It also helps us fill
important positions with highly-qualified in-house
candidates in the medium and long term. The
talent-management process is directed at executive
personnel and all other employees above the standard
pay scale. The employees’ performance and potential are
discussed on the basis of uniform criteria at conferences
held during the annual talent-management cycle. Prior to
the conferences, perspectives are gathered at a
management level, from supervisors and internal
customers. The conferences initially take place within a
corporate sector (business division, corporate department
or subsidiary) and are subsequently conducted across
corporate sectors. During the annual performance review,
employees and supervisors discuss the strengths and
optimization potential identified at the conferences and

79

Employees - Personnel Development

jointly determine development measures. This groupwide
approach allows us to offer employees in small units and
at subsidiaries prospects, too.
When the talent-management program was introduced in
2013, a three-year pilot phase was agreed. In 2016, we
were able to report that, over the course of three years,
the performance and potential of close to 3,000 employees
had been discussed annually at more than 560
conferences. During recent few cycles, over 50 percent of
high potentials and some 20 percent of growing potentials
pursued development measures in the course of a year
that ultimately enabled them to take up new positions. The
development of specialists has been given considerable
attention since the 2016 cycle. A 2015 survey of the group
targeted
by
talent
management
showed
that
three-quarters of participants considered the process to be
logical, and two-thirds felt the talent-management goals
were worthwhile. 80 percent of participants there felt that
talent management promoted a strong, open feedback
culture.

80

We use a wide range of instruments in developing
managerial staff. This ranges from company-specific,
internal group programs, to individual measures, for
example coaching or team development, all the way to
outside advanced-training courses.
Selecting Managerial Staff
In addition to the information gleaned from talent
management, whenever possible and suitable, we use
various diagnostic techniques to determine the capabilities
an employee already possesses and to identify those
which can be developed to enable that individual to
assume a leadership role. These techniques determine the
strengths and potential of the employee and provide
individualized assistance. For example, standard-payscale
employees who are recommended for or apply for a
position as shift leader or certified industrial foreperson
can
attend
a
Potential
Analysis
Workshop.
Above-standard-payscale employees with an outstanding
track record are invited to take part in a profiling interview.
This provides them with a development recommendation
as they enter their specific development process.
Executive Development
WACKER systematically and continually develops
executives, so that they can deal with the varied
challenges they encounter. We offer our employees
comprehensive programs adapted to the needs of the
respective target group. For employees new to
management, this includes the mandatory “Start
Leading@WACKER” and “Effective Management 1”
courses. Employees with several years of managerial

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

experience in disciplinary supervision can deepen their
knowledge with the “Effective Management 2” seminar.
In 2015, we launched two new types of development
programs for experienced managerial employees. The
“Learning Company” seminar allows participants to
assume different leadership roles within a fictitious
organization and obtain feedback on their performance
from experienced instructors. During the “External Peer
Reflection” program, managers can exchange ideas with
leaders at the same hierarchical level in other companies.
In 2016, WACKER launched a new, international program
for high potentials and newly appointed executive
personnel (OFK) – the Executive Development Program.
It aims at creating a joint leadership identity, developing
the participants’ potential and strengthening their
management and leadership skills. Over the course of a
year, the program, which comprises several modules,
offers a platform for exchange, feedback and peer
consulting among managerial employees.
In 2016, we revised all programs for managerial employees
on the standard payscale, from filling supervisors to
certified industrial master craftsmen, for newcomers and
experienced staff. WACKER thus offers continuous
executive development up to the executive-personnel
(OFK) level.
WACKER encourages internal networks for specialists and
managerial staff. These networks promote knowledge
transfer and exchange of information across departmental
boundaries. Examples include the “Neu-Wackerianer”
network for new employees and a network for young
female managerial staff who have taken part in a
Munich-based cross-mentoring program. WACKER has
participated in this program since 2005. Our goal is to help
prepare women with management potential for leadership
positions, with the aim of increasing the number of women
in top management. This 12-month program involves an
experienced manager acting as mentor to a female mentee
at another company. Seven young female managers from
WACKER took part in the program in 2015 and 2016.
WACKER’s OFK executives acted as mentors to other
companies’ female employees. Since the program began,
a total of 34 young female managers have taken part in the
cross-mentoring program.
Alongside the cross-mentoring program, WACKER offers
an internal mentoring program that is open to both male
and female employees. Here, executives act as mentors to
young above-standard-payscale employees.

Employees - Personnel Development

Feedback Culture
All WACKER managerial staff, whatever their level, receive
feedback on their management style when they hold
annual performance reviews with their employees. Since
2015, executive personnel and management employees
can obtain management feedback. Employees and/or
colleagues submit their responses via an online tool, which
are then evaluated anonymously. Following the evaluation,
there is the chance to discuss, with support from a coach,
the results in one’s team and to develop an action plan if
necessary.
Since 2015, third-level management (FK3) employees have
also been able to avail themselves of the Leadership
Versatility Index® (LVI) feedback tool. The LVI supports the
identification of strengths and areas for improvement and
offers a comparison between self-assessment and external
assessment. The tool also allows for a 360° view.

Demographic Change
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

WACKER has been addressing demographic change for
many years. The average age of the Group’s workforce at
the 2016 reporting date was 43. Employees at non-German
sites are younger than in Germany. The average age of
executive staff was 52.4.

The age structure abroad varies greatly from region to
region. Staff at Asian sites are comparatively young
(average age: 35.6), while staff at US locations have an
average age of 44.7. Regional variations in age structure
are not exclusive to WACKER; they reflect the age
structures of the populations in each continent and
country.
To maintain our long-term innovative and competitive
strength and to acquire and retain highly qualified
employees, we have formulated ten strategic goals. These
are:
1. Systematically promote health.
2. Adopt a respectful and appreciative approach to older
employees.
3. Expect employees across all age groups to take up
offers of vocational training and to show job flexibility,
while providing conditions that encourage them to do
so.
4. Secure expertise for the future, and transfer knowledge
in a systematic and binding manner.
5. Develop instruments to manage and regulate the
transition to retirement.
6. Orientate compensation to levels of performance and
expertise.
7. Maintain and enhance WACKER’s attractiveness for
employees.
8. Intensify advertising and recruitment efforts aimed at
professions critical to WACKER’s success.
9. Pursue forward-looking strategies for in-house

Demographic Analysis of German and International Sites in 2016

Age

15

35

55
Group
( 43.0 years)

International
( 39.8 years)

5%

4%

3%

2%

1%

0%
Group

International

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Germany

Germany
( 44.3 years)

75

81

Employees - Life and Careers

vocational training.
10. Act as a corporate citizen by fostering scientific and
technological interest in youth at an early age.
To achieve these goals, we have introduced a number
of measures – ranging from employee health programs
through to basic and advanced training. These are
intended to maintain employees’ job flexibility. We are
putting increased effort into acquiring talented and

committed young staff. Our Personnel Marketing targets
aspiring engineers and scientists and informs them of
career opportunities at WACKER. This revolves around
intensive contacts with universities, e.g. in the form of
project-planning courses, site tours for students,
opportunities for internships and providing possible topics
for bachelor’s and master’s degree theses. WACKER also
attends job fairs at universities.

Life and Careers
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity
GRI 102-24, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 202-2, GRI 405-1,
GRI 405-2, GRI 412-2

82

Globalization, demographic change and new regulatory
requirements are making diversity and inclusion
increasingly important issues. Holding each employee’s
skills and dedication in high regard, we are convinced
that diversity and inclusion enhance our company’s
performance. In 2015, WACKER started a groupwide
initiative to promote diversity and inclusion in the
workforce. The company joined the German nationwide
Diversity Charter initiative. Since then, WACKER has
focused every year on specific topics aimed at making
employees aware of the opportunities and challenges
associated with a diverse workforce. The focus in 2016
was on the company’s generational mix. The fact is that,
in years to come, different generations will be working
together some ten years longer than today, making the
workforce more heterogeneous in this respect. This is
because older employees are staying in the company
longer owing to the increase in the retirement age just as
younger staff enter the company sooner because of the
Europe-wide harmonization of study programs in higher
education and, in Germany, the reduced number of school
years.
In addition to this issue, diversity management at WACKER
is placing greater emphasis on gender and cultural
background. People from 69 different nations work for
WACKER. At the end of 2016, 43 of a total of 196 executive
personnel (OFK) were of non-German nationality – which
corresponds to 22 percent of the total. Overall, 17
nationalities were represented at the executive level.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Proportion of Women in Executive Positions
The German statute on equal opportunity for women and
men in management that became law on May 1, 2015, has
been implemented at WACKER as follows:
Executive Board: While Wacker Chemie AG attaches
considerable importance to diversity as regards
appointments to the Executive Board, expertise and
qualifications remain the principal criteria for such
appointments. There are no regular new appointments
planned for the next available date (June 30, 2017). Under
these circumstances, the target for the proportion of
women in the Executive Board for the period up to June
30, 2017, is zero.
Management levels below the Executive Board: WACKER
is focusing its attention on the two levels of management
below the Executive Board as depicted in the Wacker
Chemie AG organizational chart. With regard to the second
reporting level, we have also decided to include only
managerial employees from the highest above-standard
pay scale or those who are OFK executive personnel with
responsibility for managing employees.
We have also designated the period up to June 30, 2017,
as the reporting period for the two management levels
below the Executive Board. Because our numbers are
based on the status quo as of June 30, 2015, we will have
had a two-year period to observe developments.
Proportion of women: We aim to increase the proportion
of women in the first level of management from 8 percent
to 10 percent. For the second level of management, we
have set a goal of raising the proportion of women from
14.5 percent to 17.5 percent. This goal is ambitious, given
the fact that WACKER is a technology-oriented company.
As a rule, there are currently fewer women in the
scientific-technical professions that are important to
WACKER. Furthermore, there is very little staff turnover in

Employees - Life and Careers

Germany, and new appointments to the first and second
levels of management are usually the result of employees
going into retirement.
Equal Treatment
We thus view human diversity as an asset. We oppose
discriminatory or derogatory treatment on account of
gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ideology, disability, sexual
orientation or age. These principles are valid across the
WACKER Group and, as part of our corporate culture,
are embodied in our Code of Teamwork & Leadership.
Employees may report any discrimination to their
supervisors, as well as to a compliance officer, the
employee council or the designated HR contact person.
The complaint will be investigated and the reporting
employee will be informed of the results. We do not keep a
log of discrimination cases.
We require all employees at our German sites to familiarize
themselves with Germany’s General Equal Treatment Act
(AGG) by completing an e-learning course. This course is
compulsory for all levels of corporate hierarchy, from the
Executive Board down to standard-pay-scale employees –
all new employees must complete it.
In 2016, WACKER’s Nünchritz site received the
“Companies for Tolerance” award for their commitment to
an open company culture. The advanced-education and
non-profit organization “Arbeit und Leben Sachsen”
confers this honor on Saxony-based companies that
counteract discrimination and actively promote social
issues such as integration, diversity and tolerance. The
judges’ decision was swayed by a project organized by
the council that represents the interests of trainees. In
collaboration with the Network for Democracy and
Courage youth charity, this council held a project day
entitled “All in Your Head?” during which trainees
concerned themselves with racial discrimination,
migration, refugees and asylum, as well as various options
for courageous action.
Special arrangements are in place to help and promote
WACKER employees with disabilities. The company’s
integration management program provides for close
cooperation between supervisors, employees, HR,
employee councils, representatives of employees with
disabilities, and Health Services to permit disabled
employees to remain in their workplace or to change to
a suitable job. This allows us to retain skilled staff, and
valuable knowledge acquired over many years remains
with WACKER.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Employment / Inclusion of People with Disabilities
2016

Mandatory workplaces (annual
average)

2015

2014

632

642

649

Actual workplaces (annual average)

1,101

1,095

1,050

Ratio of actual to mandatory
workplaces (annual average, %)

174.2

170.6

161.8

Employees with disabilities as a
percentage of total employees,
WACKER Germany1

8.7

8.5

8.1

Compensatory levy (€ thousand)

12

11

0

1

Legally required: 5%

For years, WACKER has employed a higher number of
people with disabilities than required by law. Even so, we
had to pay a low compensatory levy in 2015 and 2016, as
not every subsidiary achieved the 5-percent target. Nine
out of ten employees with disabilities at WACKER in
Germany are on the standard pay scale. The average age
of these employees at WACKER is 52.0. In 2015 and 2016,
the Burghausen site took on six disabled young people as
trainees. The goal is to give them a steady job at WACKER
once they have completed their training program
successfully.
WACKER supports physically and mentally challenged
individuals who are unable to find work on the general job
market, for example by collaborating with workshops for
people with learning disabilities. Our Burghausen site, for
instance, sources key products from the charitable Ruperti
workshops (German-language version only) – ranging from
dunnage for securing freight to mounting plates for
process engineering. At the Nünchritz site, we have for
many years been using the services of the disabled
workshop “Lebenshilfe Riesa e.V.” (a charity for people
with learning disabilities; German-language version only)
for landscaping and garden maintenance. An example of
this cooperation in the USA is the Pomona Valley
Workshop. Here, the Chino site collaborates with a
neighboring organization that offers jobs to individuals
having special needs.

83

Employees - Life and Careers

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity

Employees, groupwide
Thereof female

2016

2015

2014

17,205

16,972

16,703

3,906

3,853

3,790

22.7

22.7

22.7

12,138

12,251

12,366

1,302

1,335

1,456

10.7

10.9

11.8

Female employees, groupwide (%)
Employees, WACKER Germany
Thereof non-German
Non-German employees,
Germany (%)
Third-level management employees
(FK3), groupwide

3,662

3,640

3,691

Thereof female

784

791

879

Women in third-level
management, groupwide (%)

21.4

21.7

23.9

196

190

197

20

16

11

10.2

8.4

5.6

Executive personnel (OFK),
groupwide1
Thereof female
Women as executive personnel,
groupwide (%)

1

We have set the goal of significantly increasing the
proportion of women in middle and senior management
positions over the medium to long term. One of the goals
of our talent-management project is to make female
management potential visible and to assist these women
in their next career step. With its wide range of different
working-time models, our life-cycle-oriented personnel
policy provides the appropriate framework.

Work-Life Balance

Executive personnel (OFK) figures exclude inactive employment
contracts and the Executive Boards of Siltronic AG and Wacker
Chemie AG

84
In recent years, WACKER has become more international.
The company sells products in more than 100 countries
around the globe, and most of our sales – 87 percent
in 2016 – are generated outside Germany. It follows that
we want our management to reflect the global nature of
our business. Over recent years, WACKER has increasingly
filled leadership positions in its regions with local
employees rather than with executives sent there on
assignment. The prime criterion for filling executive
positions remains qualification. In Germany, the General
Equal Treatment Act (AGG) forbids the selection of
personnel according to origin. In other WACKER regions,
such as China and the USA, we also select candidates
primarily by qualification.
It goes without saying that we offer equality of opportunity
to all employees, regardless of their gender. This approach
also applies to compensation. Whether on the standard
pay scale, in third-level management (FK3) or among the
executive group – men and women who hold the same
positions are paid the same. Statistical differences in the
average annual salaries of individual employee groups are
essentially based on seniority and professional experience.
On average, the differences are less than 5 percent in each
case.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

WACKER would like to increase the number of female
executives. For this purpose, we participate in Munich’s
Cross-Mentoring Program. To get girls interested in jobs
such as chemical technician, industrial mechanic or
electronics specialist, we take part in the Girls’ Day event
(German-language version only) held throughout Germany.

GRI 102-8, GRI 401-3, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 404-2

WACKER is dedicated to helping its employees to
successfully integrate their careers and private lives. Our
company has a wide range of flextime models, even
including a self-regulated system based on trust. Wherever
possible, we offer both full-time and part-time jobs. In
individual cases, WACKER enables employees to work
from home (an option that may be combined with part-time
work).
Part-Time Employees

Part-time employees, WACKER
Germany

2016

2015

2014

3,477

3,440

3,376

Thereof female

1,160

1,141

1,091

Thereof male

2,317

2,299

2,285

28.6

28.1

27.3

1,173

1,179

1,058

366

428

556

Part-time employees, WACKER
Germany (%)
Employees in phased early
retirement
Thereof in non-active phase

Part-time positions were recalculated in accordance with the German
Part-Time Work and Fixed-Term Employment Contracts Act. A
part-time position is any position with < 100%, previously < 96.13%
in continuous (24-7) shift mode.
Figures for 2014 were adapted as defined by the German Part-Time
Work and Fixed-Term Employment Contracts Act (TzBfG).

Our employees have access to a variety of leave options
and part-time models for personal situations, such as

Employees - Compensation and Social Benefits

providing care for family members with serious health
conditions, pursuing further education or taking a
sabbatical. Unpaid leave can be taken up to a maximum
period of two years. These arrangements are based on
the “Working Life and Demography” collective-bargaining
agreement and offer employees a wide range of options for
balancing their careers with different stages of their lives.

Since 2016, the service for family emergencies offered by
WACKER at all its German sites has been provided by
a new, specialized service provider: whether employees
themselves or family members fall ill or need nursing care,
advice can be obtained from Amiravita GmbH.
Employees on Parental Leave, WACKER Germany

Leave-Of-Absence Options Used by Employees
2016

2015

2014

Sabbaticals1

65

50

39

Qualifications2

15

7

6

Care3

3

3

2

Total

83

60

47

1

Sabbatical for personal reasons

2

Advanced training either part-time alongside work or full-time

3

Leave to provide care for a family member with a serious health
condition

Parental leave

We support childcare and the return to work after parental
leave. One example is the annual return-to-work workshop
at the Burghausen site. Day care and after-school care
facilities are available at the Wöhler-Kinderhaus, located
very close to the plant. At the Munich and Stuttgart sites,
pme Familienservice GmbH helps employees find
kindergarten and preschool places.

2015

2014

504

474

446

Thereof men

262

233

203

Thereof women

242

241

243

344

314

291

248

218

193

96

96

98

310

283

265

215

187

191

95

96

74

Returnees from parental leave
Thereof men
Thereof women
Returnees from parental leave who
were still working for the company
12 months later
Thereof men
Thereof women

WACKER was one of the first companies to sign a joint
declaration on Germany’s “Family as a Success Factor”
business network, which has its origins in an initiative
launched by the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs and
the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce. In this
declaration, WACKER commits itself to taking into account
the needs of employees with family obligations and to
offering suitable support.

2016

WACKER is one of Germany’s most family-friendly
companies with more than 500 employees – these are
the findings of a survey conducted by Eltern magazine
and the Statista statistics website. In 2016, the magazine
and the market research firm joined forces to ask roughly
19,000 employees what mothers and fathers expect from
their employers. WACKER received three of a possible
four points in each of the following categories: “Work-life
balance,” “Flexible working hours” and “Would you
recommend your employer?” Those results make the
Group one of 274 companies in Germany to receive the
“Best Companies for Families” seal of approval.

Compensation and Social
Beneﬁts
GRI 201-3, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 401-1, GRI 401-2,
GRI 405-2

In addition to their fixed base salary (which includes
vacation and Christmas bonuses), WACKER employees
usually also receive some variable compensation – a

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

voluntary payment to employees on both the standard
and above-standard pay scales. This payment comprises
a profit-sharing amount and a personal-performance
component. Variable compensation payments totaled
€61.7 million groupwide in 2015 and €69.3 million in 2016.

85

Employees - Compensation and Social Benefits

IG BCE (the German mining, chemicals and energy labor
union) and chemical-industry employers agreed on a new
17-month collective-bargaining agreement in March 2015.
The standard pay scale increased by 2.8 percent, and
it was agreed to raise the demographic sum per
standard-pay-scale employee to €550 as of 2016 and to
€750
as
of
2017.
A
24-month
follow-on
collective-bargaining agreement was introduced in June
2016. The first stage of the agreement saw the standard
pay scale increase by 3 percent on September 1, 2016.
Effective October 1, 2017, it will rise by a further 2.3
percent. WACKER raised the minimum salary bracket
values for above-standard-pay-scale employees by 2.5
percent in July 2015, and by a further 2.7 percent in July
2016.

86

We believe that it is important to treat temporary workers
fairly. At minimum, we pay a wage that is in accordance
with the German collective-bargaining agreement on
industry supplements for temporary employment in the
chemical industry (TV BZ Chemie). This is supplemented
by workplace, shift and other voluntary allowances that
vary depending on the specific plant facility and site
involved. WACKER furthermore meets the requirements for
equal pay as per German Law on Temporary Employment
(“AÜG”; German-language version only).
Other important aspects, alongside salaries, include the
company’s social-insurance contributions. Based on what
competitors offer and based on local market conditions,
these benefits include supplementary sick pay, subsidized
company restaurants, and our company cars.

Company Pension Plan
A WACKER company pension is an important
compensation component and is available at most of our
German and non-German sites – except for regions where
the statutory pension appears sufficient or legal provisions
are inadequate.
Company Pensions
2016

2015

2014

650

640

635

56,700

53,800

51,800

Average monthly company pension (€)
Total expenses for pensions and
pension-related benefits (€ thousand)

In Germany, the WACKER company pension has two
components: the basic pension and a supplementary
pension. The basic company pension supplements the
statutory pension. In taxation terms, the supplementary

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

company pension positively impacts that proportion of the
salary which exceeds the upper limit for the statutory
pension and the basic company pension. In addition,
employees have the opportunity to enlist in a private plan
that minimizes their tax burden while saving for retirement.
WACKER matches supplementary contributions as
provided for by the collective wage agreements. For the
base amount, employees receive a 28-percent match
called “Chemieförderung I”; additional contributions
receive the 13-percent “Chemieförderung II” match.
Wacker Chemie AG’s pension fund – Pensionskasse der
Wacker Chemie VVaG (a mutual insurance company) –
provides a company pension to employees in Germany.
The fund has some 17,000 members and provides pension
payments to around 8,200 retirees. The average pension
paid in the period under review was €650 per month.
WACKER paid in up to four times its employees’ annual
pension contributions, with the exact amount being
determined by the individual contribution rate.
The WACKER pension fund achieved a satisfactory result
during the 2015/2016 period. Following a difficult year in
2015, where fund assets only grew by around €8 million
to €1.98 billion, assets grew by some €200 million in 2016
to €2.18 billion. Despite the difficult capital-market
environment, marked by ongoing low interest rates, the
WACKER pension fund achieved a market-value return of
1.8 percent in 2015, and 6.9 percent in 2016. The fund
has prepared itself well for the coming years with a broad
investment portfolio, security mechanisms and continual
risk evaluation. The fund again passed all the stress tests
required by Germany’s Financial Supervisory Authority
(BaFin).
Additionally, WACKER contributes to guaranteed minimum
incomes in countries without national mandatory health
insurance or pension programs. We make sure that our
compensation and social benefits are fair and competitive
worldwide. At the very least, they correspond to local
legislation or industrial codes of practice and, in many
cases, they surpass the local minimum. WACKER Greater
China, for example, offers its employees a host of
additional benefits, such as insurance policies and
relocation assistance. Lower-paid employees, too, are in a
position to cover their own and their families’ living costs.
WACKER’s part-time and fixed-term employees also
receive the full range of social benefits. However,
participation in some benefits and their full payment, e.g.
profit-sharing and the company pension, are dependent on
minimum seniority.

Employees - Compensation and Social Benefits

Good social benefits, competitive compensation and
motivating tasks make WACKER an attractive employer.
This explains our high level of employee loyalty. The

average length of service in Germany (permanent staff)
is 18.8 years (2015: 18.4 years). On average, executive
personnel remain at the company for 21 years.

Turnover Rate 2016 – Men and Women
in %, by age group
Men and Women

up to 20

Of which:
Group

Germany

International

Europe

USA

China

Asia

Other
countries

10.8

2.5

32.3

0.0

40.0

0.0

30.4

0.0

21-30

7.3

1.1

17.5

0.0

14.8

14.9

22.6

15.4

31-40

5.2

1.0

11.8

0.0

15.2

4.4

16.3

8.8

41-50

2.4

0.7

8.2

0.0

8.9

3.9

11.1

0.0

51-60

1.1

0.5

4.1

0.0

5.0

0.0

3.8

0.0

over 60

5.7

3.0

8.6

0.0

10.2

0.0

0.0

0.0

Total

3.6

0.8

10.9

0.0

10.1

7.1

16.3

7.3

USA

China

Asia

Other
countries

Turnover Rate 2015 – Men and Women
in %, by age group
Men and Women

Of which:
Group

Germany

International

Europe

up to 20

11.9

1.4

39.3

0.0

0.0

0.0

44.0

0.0

21-30

10.0

1.7

24.9

4.8

16.5

10.0

38.5

0.0

31-40

6.4

1.7

14.2

6.1

10.1

9.2

20.9

9.8

41-50

2.6

0.7

9.8

0.0

8.9

5.6

16.1

0.0

51-60
over 60
Total

1.8

0.6

8.3

1.2

8.8

6.9

11.9

0.0

11.4

6.7

15.9

13.3

15.9

0.0

25.0

0.0

4.6

1.1

14.6

3.1

10.4

8.9

24.9

6.4

USA

China

Asia

Other
countries

Turnover Rate 2014 – Men and Women
in %, by age group
Men and Women

Of which:
Group

Germany

International

Europe

up to 20

8.1

0.0

30.8

0.0

0.0

0.0

32.0

0.0

21-30

8.7

1.3

22.7

5.1

11.6

12.4

32.9

0.0

31-40

6.4

1.3

15.4

6.6

12.5

12.0

20.2

7.8

41-50

2.2

0.6

9.1

4.7

5.4

10.8

16.2

0.0

51-60

1.5

0.6

5.9

6.7

4.3

0.0

12.4

66.7

over 60

4.2

0.8

7.3

21.4

5.4

0.0

15.4

0.0

Total

4.1

0.8

13.8

6.4

7.0

11.7

23.1

7.0

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

87

Employees - Employee Representation

WACKER holds a regular celebration to honor its
employees who have been with the company for many
years. In 2016 alone, 342 employees based in Germany
were recognized for 25 or 40 years of service, respectively.

Employee Survey at German Sites
WACKER conducted an employee survey in Germany in
2015. The goal was to identify the organization’s strengths
and areas for potential improvement. The survey is also
intended as a tool for assisting managerial employees in
improving performance in their areas of responsibility. The
evaluation of all German site results showed that WACKER
employees identify with their employer to a large degree.

88

80 percent of the respondents are proud to work for
WACKER and 82 percent would recommend WACKER as
an employer. 78 percent are willing to exert themselves and
carry out tasks above and beyond what is required of them
to contribute toward the Group’s success. In addition,
employees gave the Group a better-than-average rating
for customer focus. 92 percent emphasized the fact that
their tasks and what was expected of them were clearly
defined. 90 percent responded that they are given work
commensurate with their knowledge and abilities.
Employees felt that there was room for improvement
regarding acknowledgment of their accomplishments and
opportunities for personal development. At the plants in

particular, the employees expressed the wish to be
included more in change processes and to learn together
from mistakes.

Popular Employer
According to its own managerial employees, WACKER
ranks among the top three most popular employers in
the German chemical and pharmaceutical industries. In
the member satisfaction survey conducted every year by
Germany’s Association of Chemical-Industry Executives
(VAA), WACKER came third in 2016. The average score for
all of the 24 participating companies was unchanged from
the year before at 3.1 (with 1 being the highest and 6 the
lowest). With a score of 2.63, WACKER performed better
than average and, at the same time, made the largest jump
of any of the participating companies. WACKER ranked
eighth in the 2015 survey, up from twelfth place in 2014.
The strategy pursued by WACKER Greater China’s HR
department makes it one of the 100 best employers for
Human Resource Management in China. In 2015, the
subsidiary won China’s most prestigious “100 Best Human
Resource Management (HRM) Companies” award –
sponsored by the Chinese recruitment agency “51job” – for
the third consecutive year. A year later, “51job” conferred
its “Employer Excellence China” and “Role Model of
Corporate Training” awards on WACKER Greater China.

Employee Representation
GRI 102-41, GRI 102-43, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

WACKER works with the employee representatives in a
spirit of cooperation and trust. Industrial union
membership has always been high among WACKER
employees, especially at the German sites. However,
employees are under no obligation to inform their employer
of any union membership, and the employer is not
permitted to ask. We therefore do not know how many
union members there are at WACKER. Approximately 90
percent of our employees worldwide work in organizational
units that have employee representation and are subject to
collective-bargaining regulations.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Where a collective-bargaining agreement exists on the
employer’s side, WACKER employment contracts treat
staff based in Germany – regardless of their union
membership – as if they were covered by the respective
applicable collective-bargaining agreement.
DRAWIN Vertriebs-GmbH elected its own employee
council in 2016 for the first time, as did Wacker Biotech
GmbH’s Halle site, which was acquired in 2014. All of
Wacker Chemie AG’s sites in Germany now have employee
representation.
WACKER employees at sites outside Germany can also
form unions. At non-German sites without (statutory or
voluntary) employee representation, HR staff members are
the contacts for employee interests.

Employees - Occupational Health and Safety

Occupational Health and
Safety
Workplace Safety

reportable accidents per 1 million hours worked in
chemical companies. As in the past, there was not a single
fatal workplace accident among WACKER employees
during the reporting period.

GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 403-2

We completed alignment of our processes and workplace
safety standards with the international OHSAS 18001
standard by the end of 2015. Systematic workplace safety
includes regular evaluation of hazards and work-area
monitoring.
All our employees are given safety training specific to their
individual workplace, e.g. in the form of e-learning courses.
WACKER Germany, for example, offers 42 online training
courses on workplace safety. Topics range from general
safety guidelines for office and laboratory workers to
instruction on safe behavior in ex areas and the
classification of hazardous materials. Each instruction
module contains tests that enable participants to assess
their progress.
Workplace Accidents Involving Permanent Staff and Temporary
Workers

Accident rate across Group:
accidents1 per 1 million hours worked

2016

2015

2014

3.0

2.6

2.8

Europe

4.0

3.1

3.5

The Americas

0.8

2.0

1.6

Asia

1.1

1.0

0.8

Accident rate across Group:
reportable accidents2
per 1 million hours worked
Fatal workplace accidents

1.6

1.0

1.2

–

–

–

1

Accidents leading to at least one work day missed

2

Accidents leading to over three work days missed

We also log accidents involving employees of partner
companies working on WACKER sites. Groupwide, there
were 48 accidents with work days missed at our partner
companies in 2016 (2015: 52).
Very few of the accidents at WACKER are chemical in
nature. The most common causes are tripping, slipping
and falling, and performing manual activities without due
care. Not satisfied with our accident rate, we are stepping
up our occupational-safety efforts. We are systematically
implementing our new WACKER Safety Plus (WSP)
program, which incorporates elements of successful safety
strategies at sites with particularly low accident rates.
Such elements include safety patrols, discussions with the
workforce and emergency drills. WACKER Safety Plus has
the goal of recognizing and avoiding unsafe behavior – on
the way to and from work, in the office, at the plant, when
operating machinery, or when handling chemicals.
As part of our “ANSIKO” project on machine safety,
experts had inspected around 1,600 machines at all sites
all over the globe by the end of 2015. We then used their
recommendations to make these machines even safer for
our employees.
At its German sites, WACKER placed particular emphasis
on reviewing and updating job-related hazard assessments
in the period under review. As a consequence, we have
improved protection strategies and safety measures in
many areas.

Health Management
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

We did not achieve our 2015 goal for occupational safety
to reduce our groupwide accident rate (the number of
workplace accidents per million hours worked) to below
2.0. In terms of reportable accidents (accidents with more
than three work days missed), WACKER’s numbers are far
better than the German chemical industry average. The
reportable accident rate in 2016 was 1.6. per 1 million
hours worked, whereas in 2015, Germany’s BG RCI (the
statutory employer liability insurance carrier of the basic
materials and chemical industries) registered 9.4

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

The health of our workforce is very important to us. That’s
why one of our corporate goals is to protect it. But our
care for our employees goes much further than that.
Demographic change entails longer working lives. We want
to help our employees remain healthy and productive
throughout. WACKER has signed the Luxembourg
Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion in the EU. In

89

Employees - Occupational Health and Safety

doing so, we have undertaken to promote health and to
encourage employees to improve their health.

Health Programs
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 403-2, GRI 403-3

Health protection focuses on avoiding adverse influences
on employees at the workplace, for example due to
hazardous substances. Health promotion focuses on five
fields. We seek to avoid spinal disorders and
cardiovascular diseases in our workforce, increase mental
resilience, enable age-appropriate work and find suitable
jobs for staff with health restrictions.
Instruments for Prevention
Two of the most important strategic instruments for
ensuring occupational health and safety are medical
checkups and health-promotion programs. Health Services
at our Burghausen site advises employees in all health
matters, particularly concerning availability for work and
reintegration. Risk groups such as diabetics and
employees with back problems or psychological problems
receive in-depth care and are thus kept fit for work in the
long term.

90

We opened our new health center in Burghausen in 2015:
a modern, efficient facility for providing occupational and
emergency medical care to about 10,000 employees. In
the same year, a company doctor started practicing at
WACKER Greater China’s Nanjing site for the first time.
We offer preventive checkups to third-level management
(“FK3”) employees over 45 years of age at all locations
in Germany. In addition to organ examinations, the FK3
checkups focus on giving employees advice on how to
deal better with mental stress situations. The offer is being
well received: in 2016, half of the managerial employees
affected took part in the checkups.
Pandemic-Preparedness Plan
Our pandemic-preparedness plan minimizes health risks
and business disruption in the event of a crisis. The plan
defines how and when a central management team should
coordinate all emergency-response measures worldwide.
It includes regulations on how to deal with employees who
have fallen ill or have been exposed, as well as guidelines
on business trips to affected regions, and rules concerning
site-specific access checks. WACKER has a supply of
influenza drugs and special equipment (such as face
masks, gloves and disinfectants) to hand out to employees
in the event of a pandemic.

In 2015, WACKER initiated the “Health Culture 2020”
project in Germany, with the aim of improving the
long-term health of its employees, ensuring that they
remain fit for work and thus reducing days of work missed
due to illness. The main emphasis of the project is to
strengthen our employees’ sense of responsibility for their
own health and to assist managers in stewardship of their
resources and promoting healthy behavior in their
employees. The project is now running under the slogan
“Just Healthy” and comprises four modules: exercise,
nutrition, state of health and prevention. Employees can
avail themselves of programs relevant to each of these
modules.
In 2015, Health Services continued the campaign for back
health it had initiated in the previous year. This groupwide
initiative aims to raise awareness and introduce prevention
programs. Back problems are the leading cause of sick
days at WACKER in Germany.
In 2016, a fourth Group campaign, entitled “Just Move It,”
took off. Like its predecessors, it is a two-year program
and aims at counteracting the main risk factor among staff
– lack of exercise. This is aided by a wide-ranging exercise
program, including such activities as running, climbing and
dance courses, as well as cycling initiatives and “active
breaks” at the plants. WACKER also encourages
employees to participate in inter-company running events.
An influenza vaccination is offered once a year for all
employees, at all sites around the world. This vaccination
is free of charge and voluntary.
WACKER promotes substance abuse prevention. In
general, alcohol is forbidden at work. All managerial staff
members are required to attend training programs on the
topic of substance abuse prevention. These programs aim
to help them recognize employees who are at risk or are
already addicted, and to assist them in seeking proper
treatment. We also provide management with courses on
detecting employees suffering from psychological stress
and on alleviating the problem.
Due to its success, the “Fit for Your Shift” project has
been expanded to include further target groups such as
skilled manual workers and certified industrial forepersons.
In this health program, participants are taught habits that
can help them deal better with the pressures of shift work

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Employees - Occupational Health and Safety

or manual labor in the long term. The program consists of
four modules:
A one-week stay at a rehabilitation clinic,
A three-month program of training at the workplace,
A six-month period during which workers continue the
training on their own, and
A final refresher weekend.
Evaluation of the program after three years showed a
significant reduction in risk factors such as body weight
and body mass index (BMI), and an improvement in the
participants’ training level and quality of sleep. By the end
of 2016, over 400 employees had taken part in Fit for Your
Shift since the program began in 2013.
In 2015, we ran the “intensive rehabilitation” pilot project
in collaboration with a clinic. It is aimed at employees
with severe health issues, who are restricted in their work
for orthopedic reasons. All participants experienced pain
relief, the functioning of their joints improved and their
impairments were lessened.

The number of recognized occupational diseases is very
low at WACKER’s German sites. Respiratory diseases and
cancer are the most frequent causes of illness; there are
some isolated cases where previous exposure to asbestos
has caused occupational diseases. Suspected cases of
occupational diseases also center on these diseases. So
far, WACKER has not evaluated groupwide figures
concerning occupational diseases of its employees,
because the criteria for the recognition of illnesses as
occupational vary from country to country.
Occupational Diseases1

Suspected cases
Recognized cases2

2016

2015

2014

28

13

10

3

4

4

1

WACKER Germany

2

Recognized by the Berufsgenossenschaft Rohstoffe und chemische
Industrie (the statutory employer liability insurance carrier of the
German basic materials and chemical industries)

Sickness Rate
%

Sickness rate1

1

2016

2015

2014

5.5

5.5

5.2

Days lost through illness/target working time in days x 100;
WACKER Germany

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

91

Society
93

Donations and Sponsorships

94

Neighbors

95

Schools

96

Universities

96

Politics and NGOs

97

Children

98

Disaster Aid

Society - Donations and Sponsorships

Donations and
Sponsorships
GRI 102-15, GRI 203-2, GRI 415-1

At WACKER – we see ourselves as an integral part of
the society in which we live and work, which is why we
take our social responsibilities seriously, especially in
communities around our sites. Training young people in
the natural sciences is especially important to us because
we need dedicated scientists and engineers if we are to
remain competitive. Charitable and outreach projects to
help children and young people represent another pillar
of our social commitment, while the WACKER relief fund
(WACKER HILFSFONDS) provides support to victims of
natural disasters and helps rebuild devastated regions.
As part of our social commitment, we seek enduring
partnerships, preferring to invest in long-term projects.
WACKER’s Donations and Sponsorships
€ thousand

2016

2015

2014

Donations

1,071

1,022

851

Of which political donations

3

3

3

973

698

3,339

2,044

1,720

4,190

0.04

0.03

0.09

Sponsorships
Total
Share of sales (%)

Around half of our donations in the reporting period went to
the SV Wacker Burghausen sports club (German-language
version only) to promote popular sports, to “Die Arche”
(The Ark; German-language version only), a German charity
for the young, and to WACKER’s relief fund. With regard
to our political lobbying in 2015 and 2016, we supported
politicians on a small scale (€3,000 in each year).
Our sponsorship activities focus on education, science
and the SV Wacker Burghausen professional soccer team.
The main reason for the decrease in sponsorship in the
reporting period compared with 2014 is because we
prolonged aid in 2014 to the Institute for Silicon Chemistry
at the Technical University of Munich.
In 2016, €79.5 million in current taxes went to governments
throughout the world (2015: €218.7 million). For many
years, WACKER has been the largest payer of trade tax
in Burghausen and Nünchritz, the locations of our two
biggest German sites.
In addition to WACKER’s corporate taxes, governments
also receive the personal taxes and social-security
contributions paid by our employees.

Group Donations and Sponsorships 2015/2016

%

2015

2016
17

24

Science & Education

1

Environment & Nature
2

1
3

Culture
53
24

47

Sports
21

Health
Politics

0
3

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Other

3
1

93

Society - Neighbors

Neighbors
antifreeze, pesticides and herbicides, spray cans and
batteries. Held in Adrian continuously since 1997, this
campaign has resulted in the collection and proper
disposal or recycling of some 175 metric tons of
household hazardous waste.

GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 203-1,
GRI 204-1

WACKER sees itself as a corporate citizen, and corporate
citizenship begins with a good relationship with
municipalities and with our immediate neighbors. We
assess the effects of our business activities on our
surroundings both on an ongoing basis and prior to making
investment decisions. The assessment process includes
analyzing parameters such as anticipated emissions, the
regional infrastructure and the impact on the local job
market.

94

Procuring goods and services from local suppliers is
another important way in which WACKER supports
neighboring communities. We purchase about 90 percent
of our technical goods and services in the country for
which they are intended. Our two biggest sites are good
examples of this regional supply-chain system:
Burghausen, Bavaria
In 2016, the site procured 18 percent (€172 million) of
its technical goods and services from local suppliers
(2015: 16 percent = €177 million). Another 23 percent
came from suppliers in other parts of Bavaria.
WACKER’s Burghausen site is part of the Bavarian
Chemical Triangle – an area also known as ChemDelta
Bavaria – which is home to companies employing some
20,000 people and indirectly securing a further 50,000
jobs in the region.
Nünchritz, Saxony
The plant, located in the state of Saxony in eastern
Germany, sourced 15 percent of its supplies and
services from the surrounding region in 2016
(15 percent in 2015). An additional 6 percent of its
suppliers were from other eastern German states
(5 percent in 2015). In total, these services from Saxony
were valued at roughly €71 million (€68 million in 2015).

We speak openly about what goes on behind plant gates.
Our sites throughout the world welcome questions from
the public, with nearby residents receiving fast,
understandable responses to their concerns. We maintain
local hotlines and have central contact partners available
to deal with questions. We inform the public about our
sites through environmental reports and other publications,
and we issue invitations to open houses, such as the one
held during the reporting period at our sites in
Zhangjagang and Nanjing, China, as well as other events.
These include the WACKER WISSENSFORUM (knowledge
forum) and the Environment Information Days at our
Burghausen site, and the annual community meetings at
Nünchritz.
At many sites, we offer free services to surrounding
communities. The following are a few examples from the
period under review:

Regional Procurement

Wacker Metroark Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. (WMC) is a joint
venture between WACKER and Metroark, a silicone
manufacturer in Kolkata, India. In 2015, WMC held
what the company called its Health & Eye Camp,
enabling 600 poverty-stricken men and women from
neighboring communities to have their eyes tested and
undergo a heath check free of charge. After conducting
the tests, the eye specialists gave 410 participants
prescriptions for glasses and 71 people referrals to a
hospital for cataract surgery.
WACKER held its 19th “Household Hazardous Waste
Day” for neighbors of its Adrian site in Michigan (USA)
in 2016. On this day, nearby residents can bring in
chemical household products that are not allowed in
trash cans, such as paints, finishes, waste oil,

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

2016

2015

2014

Germany

89

91

91

Greater China2

97

98

96

USA

94

96

96

Other countries3

73

75

65

Group

89

92

91

Share of regionally procured1
technical goods and services (%)

1

Suppliers from the respective country

2

China, Hong Kong and Taiwan

3

India, Norway and Asia (not including Greater China)

Society - Schools

Schools
GRI 203-1

WACKER wants children and young people to be excited
about technology and the natural sciences. After all, as
a chemical company, we are going to need outstanding
scientists in the future – a goal we are pursuing in a variety
of ways.
WACKER supports progressive teaching methods and
modern school management systems. Our Group is one
of the founding members of the Bavarian Educational Pact
(German-language version only), a foundation comprising
143 companies that has joined the state of Bavaria in
sponsoring various projects at public schools. The aim
of all of these projects is to modernize the Bavarian
educational system.

Award for Experiment Kit
Examine, experiment, explore − and acquire a critical
educational foundation in the process. WACKER’s
experiment kit for schools, CHEM2DO®, fulfills this
criterion. Designed for junior and senior high school
students, the kit contains eight experiments involving
silicones and cyclodextrins. Chemistry teachers who want
to do the experiments in class receive training at
teacher-training centers run throughout Germany by the
Society of German Chemists and at select universities. The
kit is supplied to schools free of charge. WACKER hopes
that the kit will spark an interest in chemistry among young
people and provide chemistry teachers with teaching aids
featuring innovative materials. In 2015, WACKER launched
a new version of the experiment kit. We have taken the
teachers’ feedback into account for the revised edition
– with many elements now being even better tailored to
students and school laboratories.
Germany’s federal SCHULEWIRTSCHAFT association
(German-language version only) awarded Wacker Chemie
AG the first prize for CHEM2DO® in the 2015
SCHULEWIRTSCHAFT “That Has Potential!” competition
in the “Beginners – Large Companies” category. Every
year, the nationwide SCHULEWIRTSCHAFT network has
honored businesses, schools and publishers who

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

demonstrate exemplary commitment to vocational
guidance and the transition from school to working life.
2016 saw us take the helm as statewide sponsor and
organizer of the Young Scientists Competition in Bavaria
(German-language version only) for the tenth time. We
also again sponsored the Dresden/East Saxony Young
Scientists Regional Competition (German-language
version only). In 1998, WACKER began its involvement
in Europe’s largest competition for young people in the
natural sciences, mathematics and technology.
All WACKER sites help young people prepare for a
profession. At career days and student workshops, our
employees introduce high-school students to jobs in the
chemical industry and teach them practical skills. The
following are a few examples from the period under review:
In 2016, our new US production site in Charleston,
Tennessee, launched a partnership with Bradley
Central High School in Cleveland. The aim of the
cooperative effort is to advance scientific and technical
education programs and to help students explore
career options.
WACKER HELP is a philanthropic initiative that
supports school-age children in remote areas of China
by offering hot, free lunches every day, by setting up
school libraries, and by providing grants for teachers
and fresh paint for building exteriors. Since it was
founded in 2005, WACKER HELP has donated to 17
school libraries and a music room, and with aid from
the WACKER relief fund, rebuilt the elementary school
in Fujia in the province of Sichuan, after it was
destroyed in the massive 2008 earthquake.
WACKER’s Burghausen Vocational Training Center
(BBiW) (German-language version only) and SchlaU
(German-language version only), a Munich education
initiative focusing on refugees, began working together
in 2016. The collaboration aims to help young refugees
living in Bavaria’s Altötting district (home to our
Burghausen site) learn German, and to find them
suitable training places. In this effort, WACKER is
funding the SchlaU initiative with a sum of €200,000
over six years. The BBiW, supported by SchlaU,
launched a career orientation week for young refugees,
which was attended by 18 adolescents.

95

Society - Universities

Universities
WACKER attaches considerable importance to fostering
young scientific talent and maintaining close contacts with
universities. Our researchers are frequently invited to give
presentations and guest lectures at universities, and
university groups visit our sites for an inside look at work
in an industrial corporation. WACKER offers students plant
jobs and internships, as well as opportunities to write
doctoral theses and papers for bachelor’s and master’s
programs. In 2015 and 2016, we sponsored more than 330
final thesis projects and internships with students at over
60 universities internationally.
Wacker Chemie AG and the Technical University of Munich
(TUM) have maintained a close partnership in silicon
chemistry since 2006. We are sponsoring the Institute of
Silicon Chemistry, funded by us and located on the
Garching research campus near Munich, with a total of
€8.5 million. In the past ten years, more than 46 research
projects have been conducted here, resulting in ten
patents and 44 scientific publications. Since the Institute
was founded, we have also sponsored 55 scholarship
holders.

96

WACKER is taking part in the German Federal Ministry
of
Education’s
national
scholarship
program
(“Deutschlandstipendium”).
This
program
provides
students with a monthly stipend of €300, half of which is
contributed by the Federal Government and half by private

donors (companies, individuals). In the reporting period,
we awarded 13 such scholarships to students whose
background presages great academic and career
achievements.
Our US subsidiary, Wacker Chemical Corporation, entered
into a partnership with the American Institute of Chemical
Engineers (AIChE) in 2016. Limited initially to a period
of five years, the joint enterprise aims to enhance the
knowledge that bachelor’s degree students have of
process safety issues. According to information from the
AIChE, 72 percent of graduates of engineering programs
have only a limited understanding of this field.
Dr. Alexander Filippou, Professor of Inorganic Chemistry
at the University of Bonn, Germany, received the 2016
WACKER Silicone Award. The award was presented at
the eighth European Silicon Days in Poznań, Poland. The
Munich-based chemical group thereby recognizes
Filippou’s groundbreaking work in the field of organosilicon
chemistry. Filippou’s work is also important to industry, for
example for developing catalysts or silicones with novel
combinations of properties. The WACKER Silicone Award,
which has a cash value of €10,000, ranks alongside the
American Chemical Society’s Kipping Award as the most
important international accolade in organosilicon
chemistry.

Politics and NGOs
GRI 102-13, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3

In accordance with our code of conduct, we are committed
to responsibility and integrity – including in our dealings
with political parties and non-governmental organizations.
We represent our political interests in a way that is
consistent with the positions we have expressed publicly.
In our work with political entities, we focus on concrete
issues and are open to dialogue with any democratic
parties.
WACKER takes an active role in trying to influence energy
policies. During the period under review, we made the
following contributions to political opinion:
We support Germany’s transition to renewable energy

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

as part of the Paris climate agreement, especially the
cost-efficient expansion of solar and wind energy as
mainstays of Germany’s future energy mix, and the
climate-friendly use of combined heat and power
plants.
As a company with a high gas and electricity demand,
we need globally competitive energy prices and a
secure power supply.
As a globally active company, we support fair and free
trade. We oppose any kind of punitive tariffs on solar
modules and materials for photovoltaics. They
artificially raise the cost of solar products, reduce solar
energy’s competitiveness and ultimately prevent the
cost-efficient implementation of the Paris climate
agreement.

Society - Children

In 2016, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM)
extended an agreement with Wacker Chemie AG from
2014. As previously, WACKER undertakes not to sell
polysilicon produced at its European plants below a
specific minimum price in China. MOFCOM, in turn, still
refrains from imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy
tariffs on this material.
WACKER maintains a liaison office in Berlin to better
represent the company’s political interests. In addition, we
regularly extend invitations to politicians for discussions
and tours at our sites.
National and international associations – especially
Europe’s Cefic (European Chemical Industry Council), the
USA’s ACC (American Chemistry Council) and Germany’s
VCI (Chemical Industry Association; German-language
version only) – serve as a platform for our expertise.
Working within these bodies, we examine issues ranging
from plant, product and occupational safety to
environmental protection, nanotechnology and industrial

(“white”) biotechnology. Our experts are also active in trade
associations such as Deutsche Bauchemie (German
construction-chemicals association), where issues include
sustainable construction.
WACKER is a founding member of the ChemDelta Bavaria
initiative, which was established in 2007. Companies in
this chemistry research and production triangle want to
improve
and
expand
the
region’s
economic
competitiveness – in harmony with its communities and
the environment. Its Burghausen site makes WACKER one
of the cornerstones of the Bavarian Chemical Triangle. A
major focus of ChemDelta Bavaria is on improving the
regional infrastructure. In addition to upgrading rail
services, the initiative’s infrastructure goals include
expanding the A94 freeway between Munich and Passau
and constructing a third runway at Munich airport. During
the reporting period, ChemDelta Bavaria gave
presentations, for example, during working breakfasts with
politicians in Munich and Berlin and at party conventions.

Children
97
WACKER
supports
“Die
Arche”
(The
Ark;
German-language version only), a Munich-based Christian
charity for the young. The initiative, which works with
around 400 children and young people from socially
disadvantaged families, including refugee children,
provides children with hot meals and extra tutoring,
organizes leisure activities and offers counseling. WACKER
supported The Ark in 2015 and 2016 as well, each time
donating €100,000 to the charity. For ten years, Wacker
Chemie AG has been supporting The Ark’s work with an
annual donation – currently the total stands at €1 million.
WACKER’s commitment to The Ark goes beyond financial
contributions – its employees also spend their free time as
volunteers at the annual Ark Summer Festival.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

WACKER’s support for children and young people at a
regional level is not limited to the company’s focus on
funding for The Ark. WACKER’s own Burghausen
Vocational Training Center (BBiW) (German-language
version only) accommodated four unaccompanied
adolescent refugees from Afghanistan in its youth guest
house in 2015. Along with the eight African refugees taken
in by WACKER in 2014, the company is now helping to
integrate twelve displaced young people. The refugees are
taking intensive German classes to help them in their new
life in Germany. They are also taking an integration course
at the Altötting vocational school with the goal of obtaining
the necessary educational qualifications for vocational
training. Of the twelve unaccompanied refugee minors, six
started apprenticeships with local craftsmen in 2016.

Society - Disaster Aid

Disaster Aid
WACKER HILFSFONDS (WACKER’s relief fund) is
dedicated to providing unbureaucratic, long-term aid,
especially in the wake of natural disasters. The fund’s
board members and trustees work on a voluntary basis. So
far, Wacker Chemie AG has always matched all employee
contributions to the fund.
One of the first projects that the relief fund supported after
its foundation in 2005 was the construction of the school
in Kosgoda, Sri Lanka. The fund continues to support
the running of this school. Located in a region destroyed
by the 2004 tsunami, the school was opened in 2006.
WACKER HILFSFONDS uses its cent-donation program
to ensure that the funding covers the costs involved in
teaching over 200 students. Plus, there are another 180
students in the associated kindergarten and orphanage,
not to mention the young people attending the affiliated
vocational training center. In 2016, the WACKER College in
Kosgoda celebrated its tenth anniversary.

98

The over 4,100 employees who participate in the WACKER
relief fund cent-donation program consent to having their
monthly salary rounded down to the nearest euro – the
difference in cents is then donated to the relief fund. On
average, the participating employees donate 50 cents per
month. This amount is then matched by the company for a
monthly total of over €4,100, which equates to an annual
donation of about €49,000.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

In the spring of 2015, large areas of Nepal were devastated
by two severe earthquakes in which more than 9,000
people died and 600,000 homes were destroyed. The
WACKER relief fund has selected a project for the
development and maintenance of schools. The fund
supports the student-run charitable organization Namaste
Nepal S-GmbH based in Freiberg. Since 2005, this charity
has been involved with a Nepalese aid organization
concerned with projects such as the construction and
running of schools and kindergartens in the Sindhupalchok
province. WACKER responded with an initial donation of
€50,000. WACKER employees have donated more than
€30,000, which the company has doubled.
Parts of the Lower Bavaria region were hit by a
once-in-a-century flood in June 2016, which affected many
of WACKER’s employees. The relief fund run by Wacker
Chemie AG gave the district of Rottal-Inn a donation of
€100,000 in emergency aid for flood victims. The company
also asked employees to support affected colleagues by
making donations to fund. Employees responded in large
numbers, donating approximately €156,000. The company
matched employee donations and increased this amount
further to €188,000, thus providing a total of €500,000 to
be paid out over the course of 2017 to those affected.

GRI Content Index

GRI Content Index
GRI 102-54, GRI 102-55

The Sustainability Report 2015/2016 has been prepared in
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.

102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Proﬁle
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 102-1

Name of the organization

About this Report

GRI 102-2

Activities, brands, products, and services

Group Structure and Operations
Key Products
Product Safety

GRI 102-3

Location of headquarters

Legal Structure

GRI 102-4

Location of operations

Group Structure and Operations

GRI 102-5

Ownership and legal form

Legal Structure

GRI 102-6

Markets served

AR 2016: Our Business at a Glance
AR 2016: Major Sales Markets and Competitive Positions
Key Products

GRI 102-7

Scale of the organization

KPIs
Group Structure and Operations
Employment Structure
Key Products

GRI 102-8

Information on employees and other workers

Employment Structure
Work-Life Balance

GRI 102-9

Supply chain

Supply Chain

GRI 102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain

Key Events 2015 – 2016
AR 2016: Key Events Affecting Business Performance

GRI 102-11

Precautionary principle or approach

Voluntary Commitments

GRI 102-12

External initiatives

Voluntary Commitments
Product Safety

GRI 102-13

Membership of associations

Politics and NGOs

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

99

GRI Content Index

Strategy

Governance

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 102-14 Statement from senior
decision-maker

Introduction by the
President and CEO

GRI 102-18 Governance structure

GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and
opportunities

Vision and Goals
Supply Chain
Production and Safety
Key Products
Employment Structure
Donations and
Sponsorships

Management and
Supervision
Management Structures

GRI 102-19 Delegating authority

Management Structures
Personnel Responsibility

Ethics and Integrity
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 102-16 Values, principles,
standards, and norms of
behavior

Business Principles

GRI 102-20 Executive-level
Management Structures
responsibility for economic,
environmental, and social
topics
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest
governance body and its
committees

Management and
Supervision
Governance and
Shareholder Structure

GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest
governance body

Management and
Supervision

GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting
the highest governance
body

AR 2016: Corporate
Governance Report and
Declaration on Corporate
Management
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest

AR 2016: Corporate
Governance Report and
Declaration on Corporate
Management

GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest
governance body’s
performance

AR 2016: Compensation
Report

GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk
management processes

AR 2016: Risk Management
Structures and Tools

GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies

AR 2016: Compensation
Report

GRI 102-36 Process for determining
remuneration

AR 2016: Compensation
Report

GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Voluntary Commitments
concerns about ethics
Risk and Compliance
Management

100

Stakeholder Engagement

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups

Communication with
Stakeholders

GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining
agreements

Employee Representation

GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting
stakeholders

Communication with
Stakeholders

GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder
engagement

Communication with
Stakeholders
Neighbors
Politics and NGOs
Customer Management
Sustainability Survey
Employee Representation

GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns
raised

Communication with
Stakeholders
Neighbors
Politics and NGOs
Customer Management
Sustainability Survey

GRI Content Index

Reporting Practice

Economic

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 102-45 Entities included in the
consolidated financial
statements

About this Report
AR 2016: Scope of
Consolidation

GRI 102-46 Defining report content and About this Report
topic boundaries
Sustainability Survey
GRI 102-47 List of material topics

Sustainability Survey

GRI 102-48 Restatements of
information

There were no restatements
of information compared
with the previous reporting
period.

GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting

In 2016, Wacker Chemie
AG conducted a materiality
analysis for the first time.

GRI 102-50 Reporting period

About this Report

GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report

About this Report

GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle

Sustainability Report 2013/
14
About this Report

GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Research and Development

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Vision and Goals
management approach and AR 2016: Business Model of
its components
the Group
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

AR 2016: Risk Management
Structures and Tools
AR 2016: Value-Based
Management Is Integral to
Our Corporate Policies

GRI 201-1 Direct economic value
generated and distributed

Vision and Goals
AR 2016: Business Model of
the Group
AR 2016: Value-Based
Management Is Integral to
Our Corporate Policies
AR 2016: Two-Stage
Strategic Planning

GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan
obligations and other
retirement plans

Compensation and Social
Benefits
AR 2016: 11 Provisions for
Pensions

GRI 201-4 Financial assistance
received from government

Research and Development

GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions Contact
regarding the report
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in
accordance with the GRI
standards

GRI Content Index

GRI 102-55 GRI content index

GRI Content Index

GRI 102-56 External assurance

The report’s content has
not been reviewed by a
third party.

101

GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

AR 2016: Strategy of the
WACKER Group
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity
Vision and Goals

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Diversity, Inclusion and
management approach and Equal Opportunity
its components

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior
management hired from the
local community

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI Content Index

GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016

GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Neighbors

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Neighbors
management approach and
its components

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Risk and Compliance
management approach and Management
its components
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Neighbors

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments
and services supported

Logistics and Transport
Schools
Neighbors

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 203-2 Significant indirect
economic impacts

Donations and
Sponsorships

GRI 206-1 Legal actions for
anti-competitive behavior,
anti-trust,
and monopoly practices

Material Topic Not Covered by GRI: Risk Management
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Supply Chain

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Supply Chain
management approach and Processes and Tools
its components

102

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Processes and Tools

GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on
local suppliers

Supply Chain
Neighbors

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Risk and Compliance
management approach and Management
its components
Voluntary Commitments
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 20X-1 Central risk areas

AR 2016: Central Risk Areas

Environmental
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016

GRI 301: Materials 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Risk and Compliance
management approach and Management
its components
Voluntary Commitments
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Risk and Compliance
Management
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for
risks related to corruption

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 205-2 Communication and training Risk and Compliance
about anti-corruption
Management
policies and procedures
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of
corruption and actions
taken

Risk and Compliance
Management

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Key Products
Environmental Compatibility

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Environmental Compatibility
management approach and
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Environmental Compatibility

GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or
volume

We currently do not report
the weight or volume of the
materials used, because the
data are confidential.

GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials
used

Integrated Production

GRI Content Index

GRI 302: Energy 2016

GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Energy

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Nature Conservation

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Energy
management approach and Goals and Outlook:
its components
Production

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Nature Conservation
management approach and
its components

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Energy

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within
the organization

Energy

GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy
consumption

Energy

GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy
requirements of products
and services

Sustainable Products

GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned,
Nature Conservation
leased, managed in, or
adjacent to, protected areas
and areas of high
biodiversity value outside
protected areas

GRI 303: Water 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Water

Nature Conservation

GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of
activities, products, and
services
on biodiversity

Nature Conservation

GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or
restored

Nature Conservation

GRI 305: Emissions 2016

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Water
management approach and
its components

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Air

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Water

GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source

Water

GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly
affected by withdrawal of
water

Water

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Air
management approach and Goals and Outlook:
its components
Production
Integrated Production
Air

GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused

Water

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG
emissions

Air

GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions

Air

GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)
GHG emissions

Logistics and Transport

GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG
emissions

Air

GRI 305-6 Emissions of
Air
ozone-depleting substances
(ODS)
We do not record ODS at
the Group level. ODS are
part of product-related
assessments (life cycle
assessments).
GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Air
oxides (SOX), and other
significant air emissions

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

103

GRI Content Index

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016

Social

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Water
Waste

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Water
management approach and Waste
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Water
Waste

GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality
and destination

Water

GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal
method

Waste

GRI 306-3 Significant spills

Soil and Groundwater

GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous
waste

Plant and Transport Safety

GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by
water discharges and/or
runoff

Water
Nature Conservation

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016

104

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Risk and Compliance
management approach and Management
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with
environmental laws and
regulations

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The TfS Supplier Evaluation
management approach and Processes and Tools
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were
screened using
environmental criteria

TfS Supplier Evaluation

GRI 308-2 Negative environmental
impacts in the supply chain
and actions taken

TfS Supplier Evaluation

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

GRI 401: Employment 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Employment Structure
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity
Compensation and Social
Benefits

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Employment Structure
management approach and Diversity, Inclusion and
its components
Equal Opportunity
Compensation and Social
Benefits
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Employment Structure
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity
Compensation and Social
Benefits

GRI 401-1 New employee hires and
employee turnover

Employment Structure
Vocational Training
Compensation and Social
Benefits

GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to
full-time employees that are
not provided to temporary
or part-time employees

Compensation and Social
Benefits

GRI 401-3 Parental leave

Work-Life Balance

GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Employment Structure
Employee Representation

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Employment Structure
management approach and
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Employment Structure

GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods
regarding operational
changes

Employment Structure

GRI Content Index

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Workplace Safety
Health Management
Health Programs
Demographic Change
Incident Management
Work-Life Balance

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Advanced Training
Vocational Training

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Workplace Safety
management approach and Health Management
its components
Health Programs
Demographic Change
Incident Management
Work-Life Balance
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Workplace Safety
Health Management
Health Programs
Demographic Change
Incident Management
Work-Life Balance

GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Workplace Safety
injury, occupational
Health Programs
diseases, lost days, and
Accidents and Incidents
absenteeism, and number of
work-related fatalities
GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence Health Programs
or high risk of diseases
related to their occupation
GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics
covered in formal
agreements with trade
unions

In Germany, health and
safety topics are subject to
co-determination
regulations. Therefore,
employee representatives
are included in the process
of determining topics. All
employees based at our
German operations are
represented, which
corresponds to 70% of the
company's workforce.

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Advanced Training
management approach and Talent Management and
its components
Managerial Staff
Demographic Change
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Vocational Training

GRI 404-1 Average hours of training
per year per employee

Advanced Training

GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading
employee skills and
transition assistance
programs

Advanced Training
Talent Management and
Managerial Staff
Work-Life Balance

GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees
receiving regular
performance and career
development reviews

Advanced Training

GRI 405: Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Diversity, Inclusion and
management approach and Equal Opportunity
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance
bodies and employees

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and
remuneration of women to
men

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity
Compensation and Social
Benefits

GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Diversity, Inclusion and
management approach and Equal Opportunity
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination
We do not keep a log of
and corrective actions taken discrimination cases.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

105

GRI Content Index

GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016

GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Employee Representation
TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Voluntary Commitments
Introduction by the
President and CEO

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Employee Representation
management approach and TfS Supplier Evaluation
its components
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Voluntary Commitments
management approach and Introduction by the
its components
President and CEO

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Employee Representation
TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

TfS Supplier Evaluation
Voluntary Commitments

GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in
which the right to freedom
of association and collective
bargaining may be at risk

TfS Supplier Evaluation
We do not provide further
information on this aspect
regarding our operations,
because, in general, we give
our employees the
opportunity to organize
themselves as labor unions.

GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at
significant risk for incidents
of forced or compulsory
labor

TfS Supplier Evaluation
We do not provide further
information on this aspect
regarding our operations,
because our employment
process and the conditions
set down in our groupwide
Code of Teamwork &
Leadership ensure that no
forced or compulsory labor
is used.

GRI 408: Child Labor 2016

106

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Voluntary Commitments
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Voluntary Commitments
management approach and Processes and Tools
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Voluntary Commitments
Processes and Tools

GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at
significant risk for incidents
of child labor

TfS Supplier Evaluation
We do not provide further
information on this aspect
regarding our operations,
because our hiring process
and the conditions set down
in our groupwide Code of
Teamwork & Leadership
ensure that no child labor is
used.

GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Voluntary Commitments
Introduction by the
President and CEO
Risk and Compliance
Management
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Voluntary Commitments
management approach and Risk and Compliance
its components
Management
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Voluntary Commitments
Risk and Compliance
Management
Diversity, Inclusion and
Equal Opportunity

GRI 412-1 Operations that have been
subject to human rights
reviews or impact
assessments

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 412-2 Employee training on human Diversity, Inclusion and
rights policies or procedures Equal Opportunity
Employment Structure

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

GRI Content Index

GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016

GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016

Indicator

Link / Omission

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Key Products
Product Safety
Research and Development

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The TfS Supplier Evaluation
management approach and Processes and Tools
its components

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Key Products
management approach and Product Safety
its components
Research and Development

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

TfS Supplier Evaluation
Processes and Tools

GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Key Products
Product Safety
Research and Development

GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were
screened using social
criteria

TfS Supplier Evaluation

Product Safety

GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in
the supply chain and
actions taken

TfS Supplier Evaluation

GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health
and safety impacts of
product and service
categories

GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Risk and Compliance
concerning the health and
Management
safety impacts of products
Environmental Compatibility
and services

GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Politics and NGOs

Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Customer Management

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Politics and NGOs
management approach and
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Politics and NGOs

GRI 415-1 Political contributions

Donations and
Sponsorships

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Customer Management
management approach and
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Customer Management

GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints
Risk and Compliance
concerning breaches of
Management
customer privacy and losses
of customer data

GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
Indicator

Link / Omission

GRI 103-1 Management approach:
Explanation of the material
topic and its boundary

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 103-2 Management approach: The Risk and Compliance
management approach and Management
its components
GRI 103-3 Management approach:
Evaluation of the
management approach

Risk and Compliance
Management

GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws
Risk and Compliance
and regulations in the social Management
and economic area

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

107

Glossary

Glossary
A
Adsorbable Organic Halogen Compounds (AOX)
AOX is a parameter used in chemical analytics to assess water
and involves calculating the total organic halogens adsorbable
on activated carbon. Halogens include compounds of chlorine,
bromine and iodine.
Alkylphenol Ethoxylates (APEOs)
The primary biodegradability of nonionic alkylphenol ethoxylate
(APEO) surfactants meets the demands imposed by
environmental protection agencies. However, the intermediate
products formed during biodegradation are relatively persistent
and much more toxic to fish than are the surfactants
themselves.

B

108

Biodiversity
In 1992, the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development passed the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD). This convention addresses the preservation of
biological diversity (genes, species and habitats), the
sustainable exploitation of such diversity, as well as access
rules to, and the sharing of benefits from, genetic resources
(access and benefit sharing). So far, the CBD has been signed
by 168 countries and the EU (with Germany becoming a
signatory in 1993). In May 2011, the EU Commission published
a biodiversity strategy to 2020.
Biotechnology
Biotech processes use living cells or enzymes to transform
and produce substances. Depending on the application, a
distinction is made between red, green and white
biotechnology.
Red
biotechnology:
medical
and
pharmaceutical applications. Green biotechnology: agricultural
applications. White biotechnology: biotech-based products
and industrial processes, e.g. in the chemical, textile and food
sectors.

C
Carbon Dioxide
Chemical name: CO2. This gas naturally constitutes 0.04% of
air. Carbon dioxide is generated during the combustion of coal,
natural gas and other organic substances. As a greenhouse
gas in the atmosphere, it contributes to global warming. Since
the start of industrialization in 1850, its concentration in air
has risen from approx. 300 to 390 ppm (parts per million).
This value is increasing by around 2 ppm every year. Other
greenhouse gases are represented as CO2 equivalents (CO2e)
based on their greenhouse effect.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
COD is a measure of wastewater contamination. This
parameter defines the amount of oxygen necessary to fully
oxidize all organic material in wastewater.
Chlorinated Hydrocarbons (CHCs)
Organic compounds containing chlorine. They are used, for
example, in the manufacture of plastics and solvents. CHCs
are chemically stable and fat-soluble; some of them are
environmental toxins.
Chlorosilanes
Compounds of silicon, chlorine and, in some cases, hydrogen.
The semiconductor industry mainly uses trichlorosilane to
make polysilicon and for the epitaxial deposition of silicon.
Combined Heat and Power Plant
Combined heat and power (CHP) plants generate both
electricity and useful heat. This system can be much more
efficient at using the input energy (e.g. fuel oil or natural gas)
than are conventional systems with separate facilities. Because
primary energy is conserved, CHP plants emit significantly less
carbon dioxide than conventional power plants.
Cyclodextrins
Cyclodextrins belong to the family of cyclic oligosaccharides
(i.e. ring-shaped sugar molecules). They are able to
encapsulate foreign substances such as fragrances and to
release active ingredients at a controlled rate. Cyclodextrins are
produced and marketed by WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS.
Cysteine
Cysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid. It belongs to the
non-essential amino acids, as it can be formed in the body. It is
used, for example, as an additive in foods and cough mixtures.
Cysteine and its derivatives are a business field at WACKER
BIOSOLUTIONS.

D
Dispersible Polymer Powders
Created by drying dispersions in spray or disc dryers.
VINNAPAS® polymer powders from WACKER are
recommended as binders in the construction industry, e.g. for
tile adhesives, self-leveling compounds and repair mortars.
The powders improve adhesion, cohesion, flexibility and
flexural strength, as well as water-retention and processing
properties.
Dispersion
Binary system in which one component is finely dispersed
in another. VINNAPAS® dispersions from WACKER are

Glossary

vinyl-acetate-based binary copolymers and terpolymers in
liquid form. They are mainly used as binders in the construction
industry, e.g. for grouts, plasters and primers.

E
Elastomers
Polymers that exhibit almost perfectly elastic behavior, i.e. they
deform when acted upon by an external force and return to
their exact original shape when the force is removed. While the
duration of the force has no effect on perfectly elastic behavior,
the temperature does.
Emission
Substance outputs, noise, vibrations, light, heat or radiation
emitted into the environment by an industrial plant.
Ethylene
A colorless, slightly sweet-smelling gas that, under normal
conditions, is lighter than air. It is needed as a chemical starting
product for a great many synthetic materials, including
polyethylene and polystyrene. It is used to make products for
the household, agricultural and automotive sectors, among
others.
Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) / External
Thermal Insulation Composite Systems (ETICS)
Systems for thermally insulating buildings and thus for
increasing energy efficiency. These systems have a multilayer
structure: adhesive mortar, thermal insulating panels,
embedding mortar, glass fiber mesh and finishing coat.
VINNAPAS® polymer powders from WACKER POLYMERS
ensure that the insulation material bonds firmly to the mortar
and finish coat. As a result, the insulating system offers greater
durability and much more resistance to weathering and wear.

G
Global Product Strategy (GPS)
The Global Product Strategy (GPS) – an initiative developed by
the International Council of Chemical Associations – contains
rules for the assessment of the properties of chemicals and on
how to provide information on their safe use.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol
The GHG Protocol is an internationally recognized instrument
for quantifying and controlling greenhouse gas emissions. The
standards outlined in the GHG Protocol have been jointly
developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute
(WRI) since 1998. The GHG Protocol specifies how an
organization should calculate its greenhouse gas emissions
and how emission-reducing programs should be conducted.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

H
Hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD)
A chlorinated organic compound which, at room temperature,
is a colorless liquid with a mild odor. It occurs as a by-product
in certain chemical production and combustion processes,
such as the synthesis of tetrachloroethene, trichloroethene or
carbon tetrachloride. The EU’s water framework directive
classifies HCBD as hazardous. The results of the European
Emission Inventory show that most of the reported emissions
originate from bulk production of basic organic chemicals.
Hydrogen Chloride (HCl)
The chemical industry uses HCl to generate valuable
intermediates from organic and inorganic raw materials. The
colorless gas dissolves in water to form hydrochloric acid.

I
Immission
Substance inputs, noise, vibrations, light, heat or radiation that
affect humans, animals, plants, soil, water, air, and cultural and
other material assets.
IPCC Fourth Assessment Report
In 1990, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) started issuing reports that
summarized scientific knowledge on global warming. The 2007
Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) is the most recent in the
series. Published every five to six years, these IPCC reports
provide information about the human impact on climate.

P
Polymer
A polymer is a large molecule made up of smaller molecular
units (monomers). It contains between 10,000 and 100,000
monomers. Polymers can be long or ball-shaped.
Polymer Blends
The result of mixing different polymers is known as a polymer
blend (polymer alloy). If these polymer blends are composed of
biopolymers (biodegradable and/or renewable raw materials),
the VINNEX® binder system may enhance compatibility and
hence their properties.
Polysilicon
Hyperpure polycrystalline silicon from WACKER POLYSILICON
is used for manufacturing wafers for the electronics and solar
industries. To produce it, metallurgical-grade silicon is
converted into liquid trichlorosilane, highly distilled and
deposited in hyperpure form at 1,000 °C.
Primary Energy
Primary energy is obtained from naturally occurring sources
such as coal, gas or wind. Secondary energy, in contrast,
is derived from primary energy via a transformation process

109

Glossary

(which often involves energy losses); examples include
electricity, heat and hydrogen.

S
Semiconductor
A substance whose electrical conductivity is much lower than
that of metals, but increases dramatically as the temperature
rises. Semiconductors can be modified for a particular purpose
by doping them with foreign atoms.
Silanes
Silanes are used as monomers for the synthesis of siloxanes or
sold directly as reagents or raw materials. Typical applications
include surface treatment, agents (medically active
substances) in pharmaceutical synthesis or coupling agents for
coatings.
Silica
Collective term for compounds with the general formula SiO2
nH2O. Synthetic silicas are obtained from sand. Based on their
method of production, a distinction is made between
precipitated silicas and pyrogenic silicas (such as HDK®).

110

Silica, Pyrogenic
White, synthetic, amorphous silicon dioxide (SiO2) in powder
form, made by flame hydrolysis of silicon compounds.
Variously used as an additive for silicone rubber grades,
sealants, surface coatings, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Silicon
After oxygen, silicon is the most common element on the
earth’s crust. In nature, it occurs without exception in the form
of compounds, chiefly silicon dioxide and silicates. Silicon is
obtained through energy-intensive reaction of quartz sand with
carbon and is the most important raw material in the
electronics industry.
Silicon Wafer
A silicon wafer is a disc with a thickness of between
approximately 200 and 800 µm, and is used by the
semiconductor industry for the manufacture of semiconductor
devices, i.e. integrated circuits and discrete components.

Wacker Chemie AG - Sustainability Report 2015/16

Silicones
General term used to describe compounds of organic
molecules and silicon. According to their areas of application,
silicones can be classified as fluids, resins or rubber grades.
Silicones are characterized by a myriad of outstanding
properties. Typical areas of application include construction,
the electrical and electronics industries, shipping and
transportation, textiles and paper coatings.
Siloxanes
Systematic name given to compounds comprising silicon
atoms linked together via oxygen atoms and with the remaining
valences occupied by hydrogen or organic groups. Siloxanes
are the building blocks for the polymers (polysiloxane and
polyorganosiloxane) that form silicones.

V
VINNAPAS®
WACKER’s brand name for dispersions, dispersible polymer
powders, solid resins and their associated product solutions.
VINNAPAS® dispersions and polymer powders are primarily
used in the construction industry as polymeric binders, e.g.
in tile adhesives, exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS)
/ external thermal insulation composite systems (ETICS),
self-leveling compounds, and plasters.
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are gaseous and vaporous
substances of organic origin that are present in the air. They
include hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes and organic acids.
Solvents, liquid fuels and synthetic substances can be VOCs,
and so can organic compounds originating from biological
processes. High VOC concentrations can be irritating to the
eyes, nose and throat and may cause headaches, dizziness
and tiredness.

W
Wacker Operating System (WOS)
The “Wacker Operating System” (WOS) program bundles,
promotes and processes corporate projects for systematic
process improvement. It is the basis for a groupwide
improvement initiative by WACKER.

Contacts
Corporate Sustainability
Dr. Jutta Matreux
Wacker Chemie AG
Johannes-Hess-Straße 24
84489 Burghausen, Germany
Tel. +49 8677 83 - 86321
sustainability@wacker.com

Corporate Communications
Joachim Zdzieblo
Wacker Chemie AG
Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. +49 89 6279 - 1165
sustainability@wacker.com

Publisher
Wacker Chemie AG
Corporate Communications
Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. +49 89 6279 - 0
Fax +49 89 6279 - 1770
www.wacker.com
info@wacker.com

Concept and Implementation
nexxar GmbH, Vienna, Austria
www.nexxar.com

This report was created from the content of an online version
that offers additional, interactive features.
www.wacker.com/sustainabilityreport

7515en/07.17

Wacker Chemie AG
Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. + 49 89 6279 - 0
Fax + 49 89 6279 - 1770
www.wacker.com

