2013/2014
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report

Table of Contents
Features

iC4 – Electricity
on Tap

Fit for Your Shift
page 14

page 8
Over the past three years, WACKER has been working
on a major project in partnership with other renowned
companies and research institutes: storing energy
generated by renewable sources.

In the summer of 2013, WACKER began working with the
German statutory pension insurance system on a pilot
project that would give a fresh new face to health care
for shift workers.

About WACKER

Workplace, Plant &
Transport Safety

4

Indicators

6

Introduction

138

Prevention

20

Key Events 2013 – 2014

143

Incident Management

27

Structure & Operations

144

Accidents & Incidents

30

Management and Supervision

31

Key Products

33

Governance and Shareholder Structure

35

Goals & Future Topics

Management

Employees
148

Headcount Trend

150

Personnel Development

163

Life & Careers

166

Compensation and Social Benefits

46

Vision and Goals		

170

Employee Representation

48

Business Principles

171

Health Protection

50

Voluntary Commitments

52

Organization

Environment

Society
176

Donations & Sponsorship

179

Neighbors

77

Environmental Protection Costs

181

Schools

78

Environmental Protection in Production

183

Universities

104

Nature Conservation and Biodiversity

185

Politics and NGOs

106

Logistics and Transport

186

Children

186

Disaster Aid

Product Safety &
Product Stewardship

Further Information

114

Product Safety		

190

GRI Indicators		

119

Product Stewardship

203

Glossary

This report was created from the content of an online-version,
which offers additional, interactive features.
www.wacker.com/sustainabilityreport

About this Report

About this Report
Wacker Chemie AG’s sustainability report explains how the Group balances economic
aspects with environmental and social responsibility. In 1989, WACKER was among
the first companies to report on its environmental performance. We were also among
the first to enhance our environmental reports with social and health information,
creating our first sustainability report in 2002.
The present report, which builds on WACKER’s 2011/2012 sustainability report, is available
in English and German. The facts and figures given in this report refer to fiscal years 2013
and 2014. Unless otherwise stated, our statements apply to all business divisions and
sites around the world, as well as to every subsidiary in which WACKER is the majority
shareholder. The information on our Group structure and financial position was taken from
WACKER’s 2013 and 2014 annual reports. To be as up to date as possible, we have a
section in our Goals chapter to cover future topics from 2015 onward (editorial deadline:
June 30, 2015).
This report offers an honest and comprehensive account of sustainability at WACKER
not only for our customers, business partners, suppliers and shareholders, but also for
analysts, non-governmental organizations, the authorities, our sites’ neighbors and our
employees. We established the main contents through ongoing dialogue with our
stakeholders and a survey carried out in 2014. This international stakeholder survey asked
224 respondents what sustainability topics are most relevant and how well Wacker Chemie
AG handles them.
Our reporting is based on criteria recommended by future and IÖW (the German institute
of ecological economic research) as well as the international Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) G3 guidelines. We evaluated and assigned the degree of compliance with the GRI
indicators ourselves (Application Level A). This assessment has been reviewed and verified
by the GRI.
Our website provides further information on the topics discussed in this report. Information
on WACKER’s sustainability efforts is also available at www.wacker.com/sustainability.
Our next sustainability report is scheduled for 2017.

1
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

About WACKER
4

Indicators

6

Introduction

8

Feature
iC4 – Electricity on Tap

14

Feature
Fit for Your Shift

20 Key Events 2013 – 2014
27 Structure & Operations
30 Management and Supervision
31

Key Products

33 Governance and
Shareholder Structure
35 Goals & Future Topics

A network of pipes connects the various production
facilities at the Burghausen site – the WACKER Group’s
largest plant. Supplying the individual facilities with
raw and auxiliary materials, this network conveys the
finished products to their respective destinations.

Indicators

Indicators
Sustainability Indicators
2014

2013

2012

88.2

89.4

79.3

5.1

5.4

8.6

1,251

1,253

1,311

1,960

2,010

2,225

830

750

720

1,230

1,320

1,460

158,200

142,060

136,800

241,973

220,908

242,072

Electricity consumption (GWh)

4,927

4,526

4,559

Primary energy use (total) (GWh)

6,081

6,176

7,030

2.8

3.8

4.7

Female employees, groupwide (%)

22.7

22.4

22.1

Women in third-level management, groupwide (%)

23.9

23.0

22.0

5.6

6.6

7.3

11.8

11.5

11.8

4.1

3.4

7.9

851

925

891

3,339

964

1,135

Environmental Protection
Operating costs (€ million)
Investments (€ million)
Emissions
CO2 carbon dioxide (kt)1
NOx nitrogen oxides (t)

2

NMVOC non-methane volatile organic
compounds (t)3
COD chemical oxygen demand (t)
Waste (total) (t)
3

Water consumption (1,000 m )
Energy

Occupational Safety
Accident rate: accidents per 1 million hours worked
Employees

Women as executive personnel, groupwide (%)
Non-German employees, Germany (%)
Fluktuationsquote Konzern (%)
Society
Donations (€ thousand)
Sponsorships (€ thousand)
1

CO emissions are measured as per The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol: “A Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard”), published by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable
Development. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions. In accordance with the recommendations of the GHG Protocol,
Wacker Chemie AG’s direct and indirect emissions were recalculated retroactively due to amendments to the
system boundaries, starting from the reference year (2012) for the CO2 target. In addition to the Group’s direct
CO2 emissions, sites’ intra-plant traffic emissions were also taken into account for sustainability reporting.
2
Corrected NOx emissions for 2013 for the Holla site, since exact figures did not become available until later.
3
The method for calculating the total volume of non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) emitted by
our production facilities was amended in 2014. We harmonized the data analysis, took additional substances into
account and adjusted the prior-year figures on the basis of the new methodology. The rise from 2013 to 2014
was due to production increases.

4
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Indicators

WACKER at a Glance
€ million

2014

2013

2012*

4,826.4

4,478.9

4,634.9

1,042.3

678.7

795.4

21.6

15.2

17.2

443.3

114.3

266.6

9.2

2.6

5.8

Financial result

-78.1

-83.3

-62.7

Income before taxes

365.2

31.0

203.9

Net income for the year

195.4

6.3

114.7

Earnings per share (€)

4.10

0.05

2.43

8.4

2.2

5.2

Total assets

6,947.2

6,332.4

6,492.8

Equity

1,946.5

2,197.1

2,121.3

28.0

34.7

32.7

Financial liabilities

1,601.5

1,416.7

1,197.2

4

1,080.6

792.2

700.5

Capital expenditures (including financial assets)

572.2

503.7

1,095.4

Depreciation (including financial assets)

599.0

564.4

528.8

Net cash flow5

215.7

109.7

-536.2

183.1

173.8

173.7

Personnel expenses

1,246.9

1,133.0

1,196.8

Employees (December 31, number)

16,703

16,009

16,292

Results / Return
Sales
EBITDA

1
2

EBITDA margin (%)
EBIT

3
2

EBIT margin (%)

ROCE (%)
Financial Position / Cash Flows

Equity ratio (%)
Net financial debt

Research and Development
Research and development expenses
Employees

1
2
3
4
5

EBITDA is EBIT before depreciation and amortization.
Margins are calculated based on sales.
EBIT is the result from continuing operations for the period before interest and other financial results, and income
taxes.
Sum of cash and cash equivalents, noncurrent and current securities, and noncurrent and current financial
liabilities.
Sum of cash flow from operating activities (excluding changes in advance payments) and cash flow from longterm investing activities (before securities), including additions due to finance leases.

* Adjusted based on the effects of the adoption of IAS 19 (revised)

5
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Introduction by the President & CEO

Introduction by the President & CEO
Dear Reader
Reader,,
At WACKER, entrepreneurial success is not
based solely on key financial indicators. It also
depends on the answer to the question: How
sustainably are we performing? Accordingly,
sustainable management is one of our five
strategic goals. In everything we do, we consider
the future. We aim to bring economic, ecological
and social factors into equilibrium.
Sustainability has long been central to WACKER’s
business model, especially with regard to
generating, storing and transporting
environmentally friendly energy. Ultrapure
polysilicon for the solar industry is an important
product in our portfolio. We are convinced that
solar power has a great future because it is:
One of the most cost-efficient and
environmentally friendly energy sources on
earth
An unlimited resource
An important energy source for more and more
countries across the globe, with the market growing by 22 percent in 2013 and
13 percent in 2014.
WACKER not only offers solutions for generating and storing energy. It also consumes a
great deal of energy. Consequently, energy efficiency is a decisive factor in advancing our
competitiveness. We are constantly on the lookout for ways of making more efficient use
of raw materials and reducing our energy consumption. Our integrated production system
gives us a tremendous advantage, with its closed material and energy loops. We take the
by-products of one production step and use them as the starting material for other
chemical processes. The same applies to waste heat, which we take from one process
and use for later production steps. One example of our energy-efficient production is that
we reduced our specific energy consumption in our polysilicon production by a third
between 2005 and 2013, despite increased volumes. The Bavarian government honored
us with its 2014 Energy Award in recognition of this achievement.
The key engine of WACKER’s success is its workforce. To sustain our success in the
future, we are committed as a company to maintaining our employees’ performance and
to remaining an attractive employer. To this end, we established a new, globally valid
talent-management process in 2013. It enables us to identify our employees’
competencies early on and develop their potential, so that WACKER can fill important
positions with highly-qualified in-house candidates in the medium and long term.

6
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Introduction by the President & CEO

We are also adopting future-oriented working-time models. Employees now have access
to a variety of leave options and part-time models for personal situations, such as
providing care for family members with serious health conditions, pursuing further
education or taking a sabbatical. As a result, employees can better harmonize their private
plans with their careers. WACKER, in turn, can retain dedicated employees.
Internationalization is an additional WACKER success factor. Our company is active
across the globe, with people from over 60 nations working for WACKER. We are
increasingly taking account of this in managerial appointments. Our policy in recent years
has been to fill regional leadership positions with local applicants. And we want to
continue promoting this diversity. Similarly, we intend to increase the number of women in
technical and leadership positions.
WACKER achieved a turnaround as regards workplace safety, cutting the number of
occupational accidents per million hours worked by more than 40 percent across the
Group within two years. Our safety program, WACKER Safety Plus, was bearing fruit. We
do not intend to stop here. For us, success is an incentive to become even better.
The same applies to our supply chain. This year we joined the “Together for Sustainability”
(TfS), whose goal is for its member chemical companies to exercise global responsibility
when purchasing goods and services and to improve the ecological and social standards
of their suppliers.
Following a challenging 2013, we surpassed our goals in 2014 and achieved good annual
figures. We are particularly proud of this result, as it was in our centennial year. The virtues
that enabled WACKER to succeed during its first 100 years are entrepreneurial spirit and
the courage to reinvent itself. And we intend to remain committed to these values in
promoting sustainable business practices in the years ahead.
Munich, Germany – July 2015

Dr
Dr.. Rudolf Staudigl,
Pr
President
esident & CEO of W
Wacker
acker Chemie AG

7
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

4

iC – Electricity on Tap
Over the past three years, WACKER has been working on a
major project in partnership with other renowned companies
and research institutes: storing energy generated by­­renewable
sources. The researchers want to convert surplus green
­electricity into methane gas. This would allow the energy to
be stored easily in the natural-gas grid or in gas caverns.
The greenhouse gas carbon dioxide acts as an aid.
Storing Energy Generated by Wind, Sun
or Biomass
December 2014 was a stormy month, so German
wind turbines generated more electricity than
ever before. 14 powerful low-pressure areas –
from Alexandra to Zoe – and numerous new
offshore wind farms ensured that 8.9 billion
kilowatt hours were fed into the German power
grid. As a result, wind energy even outperformed
­nuclear power.
But what happens when the sun isn’t shining and
the wind doesn’t blow? Fluctuating green
electricity yields are one of the energy transition’s
unsolved problems. Experts are desperately
searching for a solution that will allow energy
generated by wind, the sun or biomass to be
stored. Just like a squirrel stocks up on winter
supplies, it should be possible to store solar
­energy for when the days are short. After all, we
want electricity to be available from our sockets
at all times, wherever we are – regardless of
whether the sun is shining or not.
says modestly. Over recent years, the young
chemist has enthusiastically supported the iC4
project at WACKER, in which science and industry
are joining forces to research the conversion of
green electricity into synthetic natural gas (see
box). “Storing energy is obviously a major
problem,” says Zipp, his expression serious
behind his protective glasses. “This makes it
even more exciting to be involved in finding a
solution.”

In the Consortium’s catalyst laboratory (from left):
Dr. Christian Anger, Dr. Alexander Zipp, Dr. Arndt
Schlosser and Dr. Jürgen Stohrer

What happens when the
sun isn’t shining and the
wind doesn’t blow?

8
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

CATALYSTS
Catalysts make chemical reactions possible and
accelerate them. For the methanation process,
the catalyst support made of HDK ® pyrogenic
silica is impregnated with metal particles and
then ensures that carbon dioxide and hydrogen
combine to form methane gas as efficiently as
possible. The catalyst must be stable and
­resistant to impurities and heat.

Since the chemical reaction only takes place at
the catalytically active surface of the catalyst, the
catalyst also needs to have as large a surface
area as possible. During his research work at
WACKER, Dr. Alexander Zipp has calculated that
the surface area of one kilogram of the carrier is
almost as large as 30 soccer fields.

The surface area of one
kilogram of the carrier
is almost as large as 30
soccer fields.

9
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

Opportunities for the Chemical Storage
of Energy
How can surplus energy generated by wind and
the sun be stored long-term? There are various
different approaches. “But only the existing gas
grid and gas reservoirs really make sense for
seasonally storing large amounts of energy,”
says chemistry professor Bernhard Rieger of the
Technical University of Munich (TUM). In his
opinion, batteries can, at best, store large
quantities of electricity short-term, while new
pumped storage power plants are unpopular with
the general public, and building huge new
hydrogen tanks would entail enormous effort and
expense.
That’s why the iC4 project partners have opted
for chemical storage. Here, the first step involves
water being separated into its components
oxygen and hydrogen with the aid of surplus
green electricity. Electrolysis plants for this are

already available on an industrial scale. The
hydrogen is then converted into methane with the
aid of carbon dioxide, obtained, for example,
from coal-fired power stations, cement factories
or biogas plants. This step is important, because,
unlike hydrogen, methane can easily be stored in
large volumes. It is the main constituent (over 80
percent) of natural gas and can thus be fed into
the gas grid or one of the many under­ground gas
reservoirs.
The chemistry underlying this power-to-gas
technology has long been established. However,
carbon dioxide reacts so slowly that, for
a long time, nobody seriously considered
commercializing methanation. The process was
not economically feasible. The researchers of
the iC4 group are now putting their hearts and
souls into optimizing key components for the
process in order to make methanation more
cost-effective.

How can surplus energy
generated by wind and the
sun be stored long-term?
“There are various different
approaches. But only the existing
gas grid and gas reservoirs really
make sense for seasonally storing
large amounts of energy.”
Professor Bernhard Rieger
Head of the WACKER Chair of Macromolecular Chemistry and
Director of the Institute of Silicon Chemistry

10
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

Dr. Christian Anger is one of the young WACKER
employees involved in the global competition for
energy storage systems of the future. The 30year old works in a modern building on the
grounds of WACKER’s central R&D facility – the
Consortium – in Munich’s Obersendling area.
Here, over 160 employees are working on
megatrends, such as battery components,
better processes for photovoltaic materials, and
higher-performance materials for wind power.
And materials for energy-storage systems.

“Our goal was to
develop a membrane
that separates gases
better than any other
membrane process.”

“However, it is not yet clear if and where they
will be used to develop products.”

Catalysts Are at the Heart of the Process
A few doors down, Zipp is shaking a screw-top
jar full of hollow ceramic cylinders, irradiated by
sunlight passing through his lab’s long window
front. “This could be the key to economical
methane production,” says the 39-year-old. The
small, white, hollow cylinders made of HDK ®
pyrogenic silica constitute the support from
which catalysts for the conversion of hydrogen
and carbon d
­ ioxide into methane are made.
These small catalysts must be able to do a lot:
they have to convert the starting materials into
methane as completely as possible. Furthermore,
they must be able to withstand moisture,
temperature fluctuations, and any impurities in
the carbon dioxide. “CO 2 from power plants is
not pure, but contains substances that can affect
the catalyst,” explains Stohrer. Moreover, the
catalysts must work well for years. “After all, a
catalyst charge for a production reactor costs
several million euros,” explains Zipp.

Dr. Christian Anger
Chemist at WACKER’s
central research division.

As part of the iC4 project, Anger and his team
have developed a membrane for separating
carbon dioxide from waste gas. This will allow
the greenhouse gas CO2, which is generated in
power plants, cement factories and biogas
plants, to be recycled. “Our goal was to develop
a membrane that separates gases better than
any other membrane process,” says Anger. The
membrane is still being put through its paces by
cooperation partner Linde. “We already know
that our silicone materials are quite well suited
to the support structure of the membrane,” says
research group head Dr. Jürgen Stohrer.

Even though Zipp and his team are only looking
after one aspect of the iC 4 project, it is an
important part. “Tailor-made catalysts and
catalyst supports are at the heart of the process,”
says Stohrer, who is coordinating iC 4 work at
WACKER with key project partners. The company
can offer decades of knowledge here, as the
chemical group has been manufacturing
pyrogenic silica since 1969.
Is it possible that the success of the transition
toward renewable energy sources actually
d epends on these inconspicuous catalyst
­
supports?

11
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

1

Prof. Rieger believes this to be a likely possibility.
“WACKER has developed completely new support
systems for the catalysts,” says the renowned
scientist, who heads the iC4 project. “This has
allowed us to make considerable progress with
this type of electricity storage.” The chemist sees
iC 4 as one of his most successful projects:
“Here, the right people are at the right place at
the right time.”
1
“This could be the key to economical methane­
­p roduction,” says Dr. Alexander Zipp.
2
Catalysts convert hydrogen and carbon dioxide into
methane. During this process, they must be able to
withstand moisture, temperature fluctuations, and any
impurities in the carbon dioxide.

12
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

2

iC 4 – Electricity on Tap

That’s music to Dr. Arndt Schlosser’s ears. He is
responsible for innovation management at
WACKER and establishes research partnerships
with top-class scientists around the world. To
him, the iC4 project fits in very well with corporate
strategy, since energy is a key growth market for
WACKER. “Avoiding CO 2 emissions and storing
electricity are strategic, future-oriented topics,”
he explains. “Over the coming years, nobody will
exactly be doing major business in this field,”
says Schlosser. “But anyone who wants to be
involved in these topics in the future must get on
board early.”

“Avoiding CO2
emissions and storing
electricity are strategic,
future-oriented topics.”
Dr. Arndt Schlosser
Head of R&D processes

“Because we really believe in what we
are doing here.”
iC 4 is one of the long-term topics in WACKER’s
innovation portfolio. “Here, we are free to look at
more than just the next set of quarterly figures,”
says research manager Schlosser. The prudent
chemist believes that this is an important
prerequisite for sustainable business practices,
as such projects do not just benefit the
environment. “When we look for long-term
business models that will allow us to continue
earning money and providing jobs for our
employees in the future, we are acting in a totally
sustainable manner,” says Schlosser, adding with
a smile: “This is, after all, how WACKER has
managed to succeed for 100 years.”

“Our young project managers and their teams
have really gotten involved – it’s a highly
emotional affair,” he says. “Because we really
believe in what we are doing here.”
Stohrer shares the feeling that iC4 is a special
project. “Something has to be done about
climate protection, we all know that,” he says
emphatically. He believes that the work on
chemical storage has paid off: “We now know
how it works and that it works.” However,
according to Stohrer, when and if this will be
commercialized depends on politics and energy
prices. TUM professor Rieger definitely sees
potential. He says: “Pilot plants could be up and
running by 2020. And the technology must be
well-established by 2030.”

By 2050, the plan is for 80 percent of electricity in
Germany to be supplied by renewable energy sources.
This is the German federal government’s target. That’s
why the Federal Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF) has, over recent years, supported many research
projects aimed at advancing the energy transition. One
of the flagship projects is iC 4, sponsored with €6.3
million from 2012 to 2015: surplus green electricity is to
be converted into methane gas with the aid of carbon
dioxide and stored in the gas grid.

TARGET FOR 2050

80%

of electricity from renewable energies

iC4 stands for integrated carbon capture, conversion
and cycling. Alongside eight institutes at the Technical
University of Munich and the Fraunhofer Institute for
Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology, chemical
companies WACKER and Clariant, as well as E.ON,
­S iemens, Linde and the reactor specialists at MAN’s
DWE site in Deggendorf, are on board. WACKER is
­heading two of the four subprojects.

His colleague Stohrer is not normally inclined to
be emotional about these things. He is a
scientist, after all. Nevertheless, his expression
reveals that he is impressed with the WACKER
researchers’ commitment over recent years.

13
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Further Information:
ic4.tum.de

Fit for Your Shift

Fit for Your Shift
In the summer of 2013, WACKER began working with the
German statutory pension insurance system on a pilot
project that would give a fresh new face to health care
for shift workers.
Even though shift workers at WACKER are actually
used to strenuous physical work, most of them
still break into quite a sweat during Nordic
walking sessions at Lake Starnberg (south of
Munich). The activity scheduled for the first day
of Fit for Your Shift is no casual stroll – all ten
participants instead march briskly down a small
country lane. Even experienced speed walkers
like Günther Zechmeister are enthusiastic: “The
day outdoors was really interesting,” says the
machine operator afterwards. “I learned some
new power-walking steps. I hadn’t necessarily
expected that.”

Fit for Your Shift is a preventive health-care
project for WACKER shift workers. Nine times
each year, up to 15 employees have an
opportunity to join the program, which consists
of a total of four phases. Phase 1 – the clinicbased phase – is held at a clinic on Lake
Starnberg and lasts five days. Here participants
first undergo a general physical, after which they
attend seminars and training sessions to acquire
simple, practical tools for maintaining and
improving their health.

14
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Fit for Your Shift

Nine times each year, up to 15
employees have an opportunity
to join the program.
1

2

1
An introduction to the muscles and­­s keleton
of the human body helps participants learn
how to lift items properly.
2
Even experienced walkers like Günther
Zechmeister learn new techniques at the
“Fit for Your Shift” seminar.

15
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Fit for Your Shift

Back-Friendly Lifting
For Annett Pleil, for instance, the back-health
training on the second and third days was
particularly important. “I work in Polysilicon
Cleaning,” she explained, “and part of my job
involves lifting ten-kilogram bags into a
cardboard box. Over the long run, this begins to
affect my neck and back.” The 45-year-old is
hoping that the session in Höhenried Clinic will
provide her with tips on how to strengthen her
muscles and how to lift items without straining
her back.

“Keep the soles of your
feet on the ground, keep
your back straight, tip
your pelvis and keep the
load centered.”
The facilitator explains the best
way to lift the crates.

Back-health training begins with a walking
­exercise where everyone carries around a gray
plastic crate with sandbags in it. The facilitator
explains the best way to lift the crates: “Keep the
soles of your feet on the ground, keep your back
straight, tip your pelvis and keep the load
centered.” It helps to picture the pelvis as a bowl
of water – the water should spill out of the bowl
when you lift. When walking, on the other hand,
participants should imagine that they had just
won a gold medal, striding through the
gymnasium with their chests swelled with pride.
Pleil feels that handy little tips like these are
easy to implement on the job. Even more
important for her, however, is that her time
spent at Lake Starnberg is just the beginning.

The clinic-based phase, after all, is followed by
the practical phase: for 12 weeks, participants
meet with a trainer from the SV Wacker sports
association to undergo regular strength and
endurance training for their backs. They also
practice relaxation techniques and learn about
proper nutrition. Af ter these 12 weeks,
participants move on to Phase 3, where they
participate in a self-directed course of their own
choosing. “SV Wacker fortunately has a lot of
good options,” says Pleil, who already knows
what she wants to focus on during the selfguided phase: “I want to do Tae Bo, a form of
kick-boxing from Thailand,” she says. “And do
back workouts of course.”

16
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Fit for Your Shift

“Two-thirds of them
make long-term lifestyle
changes.”
Dr. Ursula Bailer discusses the r­ esults
of Bernhard Rothenaicher’s new lifestyle
with him. The ­machine operator lost a
­considerable amount of weight and his
blood pressure decreased.

Long-Term Improvements
Over 200 alternating-shift workers from
Burghausen have taken part in Fit for Your Shift
since the program began in the summer of 2013.
“We don’t know exactly why, but nearly everyone
who participates is much more relaxed at work
afterwards,” says Dr. Ursula Bailer, one of
WACKER’s company physicians. “Losing weight
and quitting smoking aren’t goals of the program
– but a lot of participants do just that. Two-thirds
of them make long-term lifestyle changes,
exercising more, eating more healthily and
coping with stress better.”
Bernhard Rothenaicher is a machine operator
who was among the first to participate in Fit for
Your Shift. At first, he laughed at the
recommendation to pay attention to the
ingredients in food. “Now I take a good look at
what’s in it,” he says. “That advice in particular
has really paid off for me.” Rothenaicher, who is
1.79 meters tall and weighed 104 kilograms when
the program began, set himself a weight target
of 95 kilos. But after one year, when he finished
a two-day, Phase 4 refresher course in Höhenried
Clinic, his weight was down to just 92 kilos – and
his blood pressure had dropped considerably.

His recipe for success? After Phase 1,
Rothenaicher started out by finally using his
cross-trainer, which had sat unused at his home
for some time. He followed this with strength
training and jogging. Four months after the
program started in Höhenried, the 50-year-old
overhauled his diet. “I cut out the two bologna
sandwiches I used to eat on the early shift,” he
recalls, “and now I take a salad or fruit with lowfat yogurt with me to work. I avoid soft drinks
now, and I’ve gone over to alcohol-free beer.”
For Rothenaicher, shedding pounds was not the
only outcome – a family effect came into play as
well, something Dr. Bailer has seen many times:
“Spouses join in too – and everyone’s happy.” In
Rothenaicher’s case, the entire family got
involved. “My wife, both of my grown-up children
and I lost a total of 50 kilos,” he notes with visible
pride. And last year, he completed a halfmarathon for the first time in his life – for now
without his wife and children.

17
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Fit for Your Shift

Pizza Versus Spaghetti
Back to Höhenried: the third day involves water
aerobics and back-health training, followed by a
nutrition seminar. Nutrition scientist Kathrin
­Karau sets a table with pizza, French fries and
fried “currywurst” sausage – life-sized photos of
the dishes, at any rate. “Yum,” someone says and
turns over the first photo. On the back of the
photo is a listing of the fat and calories that a
pepperoni pizza like this has – which makes it
less appetizing.
Participants then put the photos together to
make menus, and here’s what they learned:
­spaghetti with bolognese sauce and a salad is
just as filling as the pizza, but contains only 30
percent of the fat. For Günther Zechmeister, the
experienced power walker, this is not news. The
machine operator from Functional Silicones and
Silicone Fluids has been a vegetarian for years
and is very active – in addition to Nordic walking,
he is especially fond of cycling and strength
training. “I’m in good shape,” he says, “but I’d
like to get in even better shape. And the 36-yearold does, in fact, learn a few things this afternoon
that he hadn’t known before. On the night shift,
for example, hot soup or a vegetable stew is the
ideal thing to eat at about 4 in the morning,
because the body’s temperature decreases at
that time, making a hot meal especially ­beneficial.

Dr. Bailer mentors and supports Fit for Your Shift
participants throughout the year. “Their overall
health has improved significantly,” she says.
“By the end of the project, you can tell both by
their lab results and by their survey responses.
Not everything goes away, but everything gets
better.”

“The days in Höhenried
really made a difference.”
Günther Zechmeister
Machine operator, Fit for Your Shift participant

1

At the end of the week, Zechmeister takes home
something from nearly every area: new steps
from the health seminar, a few tasty recipes from
the nutrition seminar, and some simple relaxation
exercises from the health seminar to help him fall
asleep. He also realized something: “The days in
Höhenried really made a difference.” At lunch on
the last day, it occurs to him that, unlike at the
beginning of the program, all of the light dishes
containing lots of vegetables now run out quickly.

18
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Fit for Your Shift

Previous participants spread the word about
their experiences with so much enthusiasm that
sooner or later, not only have their families joined
in, many of their colleagues have too – now when
they talk about what they’ve achieved, their
­c oworkers listen attentively. Plus, you can tell
they’ve changed their habits just by looking
at them.

2

1
Which meals contain a lot of calories? Nutrition
­s cientist Kathrin Karau enlightens the participants.
2
Bernhard Rothenaicher was among the first to
participate in Fit for Your Shift. He still benefits
from the program today.

19
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

February 2013
New Plant in South Korea
WACKER’s new production plant for vinyl acetateethylene copolymer (VAE) dispersions officially went
on stream at the Ulsan site in South Korea. With the
new reactor line’s additional 40,000 metric tons,
dispersion capacity there increased to 90,000 metric
tons per year.

March 2013
European Coatings Show
WACKER presented innovations for the construction,
packaging and adhesives sectors at the European
Coatings Show (ECS) in Nuremberg. Presentations
ranged from silicone resins and polymeric binders for
paint and plaster applications all the way to
cyclodextrins as environmentally compatible
processing auxiliaries.

20
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

April 2013
New Plant in Nanjing
WACKER started operating a further production plant
for vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer (VAE) dispersions
in Nanjing. With capacity rising by 60,000 metric tons,
output doubled to 120,000 tons a year. The plant
complex is the largest of its kind in China.

July 2013
Unilever Presents Award
In Singapore, WACKER received Unilever’s “Partner
to Win Award” for its ability to provide a demanddriven supply of silicone raw materials. According to
the jury, WACKER helped to significantly reduce the
cost of silicone emulsions for haircare products by
expanding capacities and developing effective
solutions at its site in India.

21
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

October 2013
K 2013 Plastics Tradeshow
WACKER presented innovations for the silicone and
plastics processing industries at K 2013, the 19th
International Trade Fair for Plastics and Rubber, in
Düsseldorf. ELASTOSIL® Film – a thin film of silicone
– is a world first. It can be used, for example, in
trailblazing sensor technologies.

November 2013
Pharmaceutical-Protein
Business Intensified
Jena-based Wacker Biotech, a subsidiary of Wacker
Chemie AG, acquired a therapeutic proteins
production site from BioNet Ventures GmbH in Halle,
eastern Germany. This acquisition saw WACKER
taking over the facilities and patent portfolio of Scil
Proteins Production. The WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS
division used the acquisition to strengthen its activities
in the field of pharmaceutical proteins.

22
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

January 2014
Siltronic Silicon Wafer
Siltronic took over a majority stake in its Siltronic
Samsung Wafer Pte. Ltd. joint venture. Siltronic
subscribed new shares in a capital increase, to hold
78 percent of the joint venture. The company was
renamed Siltronic Silicon Wafer Pte. Ltd, in which
Samsung retains a 22-percent stake.

February 2014
Integration Award
WACKER received the Upper Bavarian government’s
award for outstanding services to integration. The
honor recognized WACKER’s sustained support of
“Die Arche” (The Ark), a children’s charity in the
Moosach district of Munich. One of the ways the
company has supported this charity since 2007 is by
making an annual donation of €100,000. The Ark
provides assistance to children from socially
disadvantaged families, many of whom are from
abroad.

23
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

March 2014
Polysilicon Exports
Wacker Chemie AG and the Chinese Ministry of
Commerce (MOFCOM) reached an amicable
agreement on the issue of polysilicon exports to
China. WACKER undertook not to sell polysilicon
produced at its European sites below a specific
minimum price in China. MOFCOM, in turn, refrained
from imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on
this material. The agreement came into effect on May
1, 2014.

June 2014
Largest Spray Dryer Ever
WACKER invested about €20 million in production
capacities for dispersible polymer powders at its
Burghausen site. The Group began constructing a
new spray dryer there with an annual capacity of
50,000 metric tons. The facility is one of the largest of
its kind worldwide.

24
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

August 2014
WACKER Silicone Award
The WACKER Silicone Award went to Akira Sekiguchi,
a professor of organic chemistry at the University of
Tsukuba in Japan. The €10,000 award was conferred
on August 4, 2014 during the 7th European Silicon
Days in Berlin. In 2003, Sekiguchi had been the first to
synthesize molecules with stable silicon-silicon triple
bonds and to verify them by means of X-ray
crystallography. These and numerous other studies
have made Sekiguchi a pioneer in the field of
organosilicon research.

August 2014
Honored by Bosch
Robert Bosch GmbH conferred its Preferred Supplier
status on WACKER for elastomers and thermosetting
plastics. The Stuttgart-based technology and service
provider gave WACKER top marks in the categories of
quality, logistics, innovation and strategic
collaboration. As a Preferred Supplier, WACKER can
now participate even more in the development of this
customer’s new products and technologies. Bosch
assigns its Preferred Supplier status annually to the
best of its 4,000 suppliers in its subassemblies and
materials groups.

25
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Events 2013 – 2014

October 2014
Centennial
Wacker Chemie AG celebrated its centennial on
October 13. That was the day, in 1914, when
Alexander Wacker entered the “Dr. Alexander Wacker
Gesellschaft für elektrochemische Industrie, KG” in the
Traunstein commercial register, thereby laying the
foundations of the WACKER Group. With a
background in business, Wacker then established in
1903 the “Consortium für elektrochemische Industrie,”
which is WACKER’s present-day corporate research
arm. That original seed would later grow into today’s
Wacker Chemie AG. The company celebrated its
centennial with special events and open-house days.

October 2014
Bavarian Energy Award
The Bavarian government presented WACKER with its
Bavarian Energy Award in Nuremberg. The award
cited the Group’s highly efficient polysilicon
manufacturing operations. Using advanced, patented
technology and process optimizations, WACKER had
lowered its specific energy consumption for polysilicon
production by 29 percent. Hyperpure polysilicon is the
main raw material for making solar modules and,
consequently, plays a vital role in generating solar
power.

26
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Group Structure and Operations

Group Structure and Operations
WACKER is a globally active company with state-of-the-art specialty chemical products.
Our portfolio includes over 3,200 products supplied to more than 3,500 customers in over
100 countries. WACKER products are found in countless everyday items, ranging from
cosmetic powders to solar cells.
Silicon Is Our Main Starting Material
Most of our products are based on inorganic starting materials. Silicon-based products
account for 80 percent of WACKER sales, and products that are primarily ethylene-related
for 20 percent. Our customers come from virtually every major sector, ranging from
consumer goods, food, pharmaceuticals, textiles and the solar, electrical/electronics and
base-chemical industries, to medical technology, biotech and mechanical engineering. As
a manufacturer of silicones and polymers, WACKER is particularly well represented in the
automotive and construction sectors. We are also a key supplier of silicon wafers to the
semiconductor industry. In recent years, the market for polycrystalline silicon for the solar
industry – an area in which WACKER is one of the world’s largest manufacturers – has
demonstrated strong growth.
Technical Competence Centers Support Sales and Marketing Activities
WACKER operates all over the world. Our sales strategy is centered around expanding
our presence in growth markets. Our sales organization is supplemented not only by
a network of technical competence centers, where customers learn about WACKER’s
product portfolio, but also by the WACKER ACADEMY, where we offer technical training
sessions on our products and their application fields. In 2014, we expanded our existing
technical competence center for silicone applications in Kolkata, India, and opened a new
sales office in Manila in the Philippines. In total, WACKER has 52 sales offices in 28
countries.
New Production Site in Germany
WACKER’s integrated global production system consists of 25 production sites (2013:
24). Of these, eight are in Europe, seven in the Americas and nine in Asia. With the
acquisition of Scil Proteins Production GmbH, a site for therapeutic protein production
in Halle, Germany, has been added to this system. The Group’s key production site is
Burghausen (Germany). At this site alone, we have some 9,700 employees (including
temporary workers and trainees). In 2014, Burghausen’s manufacturing output reached
around 680,000 metric tons, accounting for over 50 percent of the Group’s production
output. Alongside Burghausen, Nünchritz is WACKER’s second multidivisional site.

27
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Group Structure and Operations

Key Factors for Multidivisional Sites

Legal Structure
Our legal structure has not changed compared with the previous reporting period. In
November 2005, WACKER became a stock corporation (AG) under German law.
Headquartered in Munich, Wacker Chemie AG holds a direct or indirect stake in 56
companies belonging to the WACKER Group. The consolidated financial statements cover
52 fully consolidated companies. Three companies are accounted for using the equity
method. One small company that is not part of our core operations has not been
consolidated.
Five Operating Divisions
WACKER is based on a matrix organization with clearly defined functions. The Group
has five business divisions, which have global responsibility for their own products,
manufacturing facilities, markets, customers and results. Regional organizations are
responsible for all business in their countries. WACKER’s corporate departments primarily
provide services for the whole Group, although some also have production-related
functions.

WACKER’s Structure

28
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Group Structure and Operations

Group Structure in Terms of Managerial Responsibility

29
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management and Supervision

Management and Supervision
In compliance with the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), Wacker Chemie AG has
a two-tier management system, comprising the Executive Board and Supervisory Board.
The Executive Board has four members. Wacker Chemie AG is the parent company and
thus determines the Group’s strategy, overall management, resource allocation, funding,
and communications with key target groups (especially with the capital market and
shareholders).

Executive Board Responsibilities
Dr. Rudolf Staudigl

President & CEO
WACKER POLYSILICON
Executive Personnel, Corporate Development, Corporate
Communications, Investor Relations, Corporate Auditing, Legal,
Compliance

Dr. Tobias Ohler

WACKER POLYMERS
Human Resources (Personnel Director), Technical Procurement
& Logistics, Raw Materials Procurement
Region: Asia

Dr. Joachim Rauhut

SILTRONIC
Corporate Accounting and Tax, Corporate Controlling, Corporate
Finance and Insurance, Corporate Engineering, Information
Technology
Region: The Americas

Auguste Willems

WACKER SILICONES
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS
Sales & Distribution, Corporate Research & Development,
Intellectual Property, Site Management, Corporate Security,
Environment / Health / Safety, Product Stewardship
Regions: Europe, Middle East

Executive Board and Supervisory Board in 2014
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board remained unaltered in 2014. Dr. Bernd
W. Voss, a Supervisory Board member, stepped down effective December 31, 2014. He
was succeeded by Dr. Andreas Biagosch, who was appointed to the Supervisory Board by
court order effective January 26, 2015.
Declaration on Corporate Management
Submitted as per Section 289a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the declaration on
corporate management forms part of the Corporate Governance Report. This declaration
is also part of the combined management report and is available online. It contains
the Executive and Supervisory Boards’ work procedures, the declaration of conformity
pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), and information on
key corporate management practices.

30
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Products, Services and Processes

Key Products, Services and Processes
Our divisions’ overall range of products and services remained unchanged in the reporting
period. In several application areas, we expanded our product portfolio. Our WACKER
SILICONES division provides customers with our broadest offering of over 2,800 products
– ranging from silicone fluids and emulsions, resins, elastomers and sealants, to silanes
and pyrogenic silica grades. The division manufactures both specialty products tailored to
customers’ specific needs, and standard products primarily used as starting materials in
the production of silicones.
WACKER POLYMERS manufactures state-of-the-art binders and polymeric additives (such
as dispersible polymer powders and dispersions). These are used in diverse industrial
applications or as base chemicals. Customers include the paints, coatings, paper and
adhesives industries. The main customer for polymeric binders is the construction industry,
which uses them as additives in tile adhesives, dry-mix mortars, self-leveling flooring
compounds, and EIFS (exterior insulation and finish systems)/ETICS (external thermal
insulation composite systems).
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS, our smallest division, supplies customized biotech and catalog
products for the fine-chemical sector. Products include pharmaceutical proteins,
cyclodextrins, cysteine, polyvinyl acetate solid resins (for gumbase), organic intermediates
and acetylacetone. The division focuses on customer-specific solutions for growth areas,
such as food additives, pharmaceutical actives and agrochemicals.
WACKER POLYSILICON produces hyperpure polysilicon for the semiconductor,
electronics and – above all – solar sectors. Most of this polysilicon is sent to external
customers. In-house we supply polysilicon to the Siltronic division.
Siltronic supplies leading semiconductor manufacturers with silicon wafers. These wafers
are the essential raw materials for virtually all semiconductor products – whether for
discrete semiconductor components (e.g. transistors and rectifiers) or microchips (e.g.
microprocessors and memory chips).

Divisional Shares in External Sales

31
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Key Products, Services and Processes

External Sales by Customer Headquarters
€ million

Germany
Rest of Europe
The Americas
Asia
Other regions
Group

2014

2013

2012

663.7

647.0

686.0

1,130.5

1,073.8

1,090.7

810.7

761.0

834.2

2,039.7

1,826.1

1,862.0

181.8

171.0

162.0

4,826.4

4,478.9

4,634.9

WACKER Adds Value through Integrated Production
WACKER’s integrated production
system forms the basis of high
cost, energy and resource
efficiency. By-products and waste
heat feed back into production
via highly interlinked material and
energy loops and go on to create
more value.
Over the past decades,
WACKER has expanded its
production into an integrated
system with largely closed
loops.
In integrated processes, we optimize the use of raw materials and auxiliary materials.
By-products of chemical processes are used as raw materials in the facility that
produced them or in a neighboring facility, where they are turned into valuable
products.
Likewise, we use the waste heat from production processes and waste incineration for
further chemical processes.

32
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Governance and Shareholder Structure

Governance and Shareholder Structure
Corporate governance is an important part of a company’s success, responsible corporate
management and supervision. Wacker Chemie AG attaches great importance to the rules
of proper corporate governance. In this report, the Executive Board provides details –
also for the Supervisory Board – on corporate governance in accordance with Item 3.10
of the German Corporate Governance Code (Code) and Section 289a (1) of the German
Commercial Code (HGB).
Declaration of Conformity and Corporate Governance Reporting
In the 2014 fiscal year, the Executive and Supervisory Boards dealt intensively with the
company’s corporate governance and the recommendations of the Code published on
June 24, 2014. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board resolved in December
2013 to issue the following Declaration of Conformity as per Section 161 of the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG). The Declaration of Conformity has since been made
permanently available to the general public on the company’s website.
The 2014 Declaration of Conformity Issued by Wacker Chemie AG’s Executive and
Supervisory Boards
General Declaration Pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act
In December 2013, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Wacker Chemie
AG issued a declaration of conformity pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock
Corporation Act. Since that time, Wacker Chemie AG has complied with the
recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated
May 13, 2013, with the following exceptions, and will continue to comply with the
recommendations of the Code in the version dated June 24, 2014, except as follows:

Exceptions
a) D&O Insurance Deductible for Supervisory Boar
Board
d Members
The law and the Articles of Association set clear limits in regards to the Supervisory Board’s
ability to exert influence on the business activities of a stock corporation. Pursuant to
Section 76 (1) of the German Stock Corporation Act, an Executive Board is responsible for
independently managing the corporation. A Supervisory Board is instrumental in defining
the main features of corporate strategy. However, beyond this contribution, the Supervisory
Board’s abilities are limited in terms of influencing operations or the implementation of
corporate strategy. The same applies to measures taken to avert damage or loss to the
company. Since the Supervisory Board members receive a relatively low representation
allowance compared with the Executive Board members’ compensation, we do not
consider a deductible to be reasonable for members of the Supervisory Board.
b) Appr
Appropriate
opriate Repr
Representation
esentation of W
Women
omen on the Executive Boar
Board
d
The considerable importance that Wacker Chemie AG attaches to diversity extends to
Executive Board membership. Nonetheless, expertise – including experience gained
abroad – and qualifications are the key criteria here. For this reason, we do not consider
it expedient to prioritize “the aim of appropriate representation of women” over expertise
and qualifications.

33
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Governance and Shareholder Structure

c) Formation of a Nomination Committee within the Supervisory Boar
Board
d
The Supervisory Board is to establish a Nomination Committee that is exclusively
composed of shareholder representatives and whose task it is to make recommendations
to the Supervisory Board with regard to candidates suitable for proposal to the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting.
We do not comply with this recommendation because, in view of our shareholder structure,
we do not believe that the formation of such a committee is appropriate. Due to the
majority situation, nominations to the Supervisory Board must be agreed with the majority
shareholder in any case, so that an additional nomination committee would not serve to
increase efficiency.
d) Announcement of Pr
Proposed
oposed Candidates for the Chair of the Supervisory Boar
Board
d to the
Shar
Shareholders
eholders
According to this recommendation, shareholders shall be informed of any candidates for
the Supervisory Board chair, even though as a rule, the Supervisory Board has not yet
been appointed. Under German law, the Supervisory Board chair must be elected by, and
from among, the Supervisory Board members. There is no legal requirement to announce
the candidates for the chair from among a yet-to-be-appointed group of Supervisory
Board members. Furthermore, this would result in a de facto predetermination, which is
also not provided for under German law. For these reasons, we do not comply with this
recommendation.
e) Naming of a Specific T
Target
arget Number of Independent Members of the Supervisory Boar
Board
d
In its current composition, Wacker Chemie AG’s Supervisory Board complies with the
requirements concerning an adequate number of independent supervisory board
members. What is more, in its future recommendations to the shareholders in respect of
appointments, the Supervisory Board will make sure it proposes what it considers to be an
adequate number of independent candidates. Setting a specific target for the number of
independent Supervisory Board members would not only restrict the selection of suitable
candidates for that body, but also curb the rights of the shareholders to select those
candidates that they consider the most appropriate for the task. For these reasons, we do
not comply with this recommendation.
f) Time Limitation on Applications for Judicial Appointment of a Supervisory Boar
Board
d Member
According to this recommendation, applications for the judicial appointment of a
Supervisory Board member should be limited in time until the next Annual Shareholders’
Meeting.
We did not follow this recommendation. Proposals for a candidate to be appointed by the
court are agreed in advance with the majority shareholder in any case. Due to the majority
situation, the subsequent election of the same candidate at the next Annual Shareholders’
Meeting would only be confirmation of his/her appointment, which is superfluous from our
point of view.
Wacker Chemie AG’s largest shareholder is still Dr. Alexander Wacker Familiengesellschaft
mbH, Munich. It holds over 50 percent of the voting shares in Wacker Chemie AG (2013:
over 50 percent).
Blue Elephant Holding GmbH (Pöcking, Germany) once again had no voting-share changes
to report in 2014, That means it still holds over 10 percent (2013: over 10 percent) of
Wacker Chemie AG.

34
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management

Goals and Future Topics
Management
Status of Goals for 2011/2012
Introduction of the internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 occupational health and
safety management system at all WACKER sites, with verification through internal audits
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: Goal was realized to a large extent. All production sites have
introduced an OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system. We
have checked the implementation as part of our internal audits. Any need for
improvement identified at individual sites will be attended to by the end of 2015.
Employee Suggestion Program (BVW): increase the participation rate (number of
submitters per 100 employees) from 28 to 50 percent (referenced to 2008)
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: Ongoing every year
Implementation status: The goal was not achieved. The participation rate fell to
32 percent in 2013 and 30 percent in 2014.

NEW GOALS
Replacement of all existing IT tools for incident, key-figure and inspection management
with our SPIRIT sustainability platform
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Assessment of the sustainability performance of our 400 main suppliers as part of the
“Together for Sustainability” (TfS) initiative
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2016

FUTURE TOPICS
Regional Sustainability-Management Focus
In 2015, the Americas will be the focal region of WACKER’s sustainability management.
Our focus will involve an inspection of individual sites, including the new plant in
Charleston (Tennessee, USA), with regard to EHS. In 2016, the focus will be on Europe.

35
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environment

Environment
GOALS
Lower our average specific energy consumption (amount of energy per net production
volume) by a further 11 percent from 2013 on. Overall, from 2007 to 2022, we will have
brought our specific energy down by one-third.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2022
Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 15 percent per metric ton of net production – while
maintaining a comparable product portfolio – from 2014 onward.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2022
Lower particulate-matter emissions by 25 percent for a comparable product portfolio.
Reduce emissions of non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs). Based on
the adapted assessment method for NMVOCs, work out the reduction potential for this
substance group.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2022
Protect rivers and other surface water even better against harmful substance escapes.
This includes a groupwide study to identify potential risks and take countermeasures.
Develop additional measures as part of our plants’ safety plans to increase the protection
further.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015

FUTURE TOPICS
Energy
WACKER is continuing to work on improving its energy efficiency. The planned start of
polysilicon production in Tennessee in 2015 will increase our electricity consumption. We
aim to reduce our weighted specific energy consumption (amount of energy per unit of
net production output) in Germany by one-third by 2022, with 2007 as the base year.
Air
With our quantifiable environmental goals, we intend to decrease the impact of our
production activities on the environment. An example of how we are working on
achieving our CO2 target is illustrated at the Burghausen site, where WACKER
POLYMERS has invested in an ethylene-recovery plant in order to further improve the
sustainability of its VAM (vinyl acetate monomer) plant. With it, we aim to annually
recover 2,400 metric tons of ethylene from the VAM plant’s waste gas and return it to the
VAM process. This is equivalent to 6,800 metric tons fewer carbon dioxide emissions per
year. This recovery plant started up in the first quarter of 2015.

36
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environment

Soil and Groundwater
In 2015, we applied for a permit as required under German water law in order to
withdraw more groundwater at the Burghausen site in the future. We want to do this to
ensure the quality of our ultrapure water supply and, in particular, to bridge periods of
poor quality surface water. An extensive monitoring program will accompany the
withdrawal of groundwater. This will include groundwater level measurements, discharge
measurements at three streams in the Haiming municipality and a functional check of the
habitats in the riparian woodland, including nature-conservation inventories. This is how
we aim to ensure that the groundwater withdrawal does not negatively impact nature,
e.g. water quality and tree growth in the nature reserve.
Biodiversity
In 1992, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development passed the
Convention on Biological Diversity. In May 2011, the EU Commission published a
biodiversity strategy to 2020. We are collaborating with the German Chemical Industry
Association (VCI) to implement this strategy in the German chemical industry.

37
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Products

Products
Product Safety
Status of Goals for 2011/2012
We will publish further GPS Safety Summaries – which make information on material
properties publicly accessible – for the substances we have registered with the ECHA.
The Global Product Strategy (GPS) – an initiative developed by the International Council
of Chemical Associations – contains rules for the assessment of the properties of
chemicals and on how to provide information on their safe use. By the end of the 2011/
2012 reporting period, we had published 41 GPS Safety Summaries on the ICCA
(International Council of Chemical Associations) website.
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: The relevant GPS Safety Summaries are to be published on the ICCA website
no later than one year after the registration of our substances with the ECHA. This will
probably amount to more than 300 substances by the end of 2018.
Implementation status: By the end of 2014, we had published 75 Safety Summaries on
the ICCA chemicals website for the substances we registered under REACH.

FUTURE TOPICS
REACH
We are preparing a further 145 substance dossiers for the third stage of REACH, which
runs until mid-2018. We will publish further descriptions of the safe, environmentally
compliant use of chemicals (GPS Safety Summaries) for the substances we have
registered with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA).
GHS
In 2014, GHS implementation was in high gear in Europe and the USA in order to meet
the deadline of June 1, 2015. The aim of the United Nations’ GHS initiative (Globally
Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) is to create a globally
uniform system for labeling hazardous substances. In actual practice, however, every
country has the freedom to tailor the system. This results in many national versions of
GHS that differ in significant ways, making the job of classifying and labeling our
products that much more complex. We are continuing to make steady progress toward
our goal of meeting country-specific implementation deadlines. As matters stand, these
deadlines will extend beyond 2017.

38
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Products

Products
Product Stewardship
FUTURE TOPICS
Research and Development
The Group’s research and development work remains focused on key strategic projects.
One major aspect of R&D work in 2015 will be to bring to market the initial results of our
New Solutions project – an initiative for developing technically and commercially superior
solutions for new applications. Our R&D priorities remain the highly promising fields of
energy, consumer care, biotechnology, construction applications and semiconductors.
We are devoting particular attention to energy storage and renewable energy generation.
WACKER will continue to participate in the National Platform for Electric Mobility, an
initiative launched jointly by the German government and industry. The common goal is
for at least one million electric vehicles to be on the road in Germany by 2020. At its
Corporate R&D facility, WACKER is working on developing accumulator technologies
that will pave the way for viable, sustainable electromobility. For example, researchers
want to replace the graphite in lithium-ion batteries with silicon, since silicon can absorb
up to 10 times as many lithium ions, thereby considerably increasing the energy-storage
capacity.
Polysilicon Production
Our polysilicon production plant in Charleston (Tennessee, USA) will be completed in
2015. Our development projects are focused on further boosting the efficiency of
polysilicon production processes. We believe there is considerable scope for reducing
specific energy consumption. Lower production costs will further enhance the
competitiveness of photovoltaic power generation. We expect this application to develop
into a leading energy source for meeting worldwide electricity demand over the coming
decades. We share this opinion with numerous experts, e.g. the International Energy
Agency (IEA), which even predicts in one of its growth scenarios that up to 50 percent of
power will be supplied by photovoltaics by 2060.
Ecological Product Assessments
WACKER will further deploy the WACKER® Eco Assessment Tool as a standard tool
across the Group. This will help us assess the sustainability performance of our key
product lines.

39
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Safety

Safety
Status of Goals for 2011/2012
Reduce accident rate (number of accidents with lost workdays per million hours worked)
from 4.7 to 2.0 (referenced to 2012)
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015
Implementation status: We made great progress toward reaching this goal in the period
under review. Groupwide, there were 3.8 workplace accidents with days off work per
million hours worked in 2013 – a drop of 19 percent compared to 2012. In 2014, the
accident rate fell again – by 26 percent – to 2.8.
Introduction of safety performance indicator “Accidents Leading to Work Days Missed by
Employees of Partner Companies”
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2014
Implementation status: The goal was surpassed. Since 2014, we have been registering
accidents with work days missed involving employees of partner companies not only in
Germany, but also groupwide. In 2014, there were 33 accidents with work days missed
involving partner companies at Wacker Chemie AG sites around the world.

NEW GOALS
Reduce number of safety and environmentally relevant incidents per million hours
worked by 10 percent (referenced to 2014)
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2015

FUTURE TOPICS
In-Depth Hazard Analyses – Better Protection Plans
WACKER would like to deploy a more far-reaching method of reviewing and updating
hazard analyses at all German sites by the end of 2016. The goal of the program is to
improve the protection plans and measures for individual activities.
Focus Topic: Safe Handling of Chemicals
We have resolved to make a closer study in 2015 of injuries caused by hazardous
substances. Our aim is to further enhance our protection plans.

40
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Employees

Employees
Status of Goals for 2011/2012
Introduction of new health performance indicators:
Annual influenza inoculation of at least 20 percent of the Group workforce
Occupational diseases that have a short latency period (number of new cases)
First aid/rescue chain: at least one medical emergency drill per production site per
year; effective first aid within three minutes
Completion of all scheduled occupational-health checkups on the basis of
occupational hazard analyses
Each site to participate in Group campaigns on health promotion (in 2013: “Follow
your heart”)
Corporate entity: Groupwide
Deadline: 2013
Implementation status: The goal was achieved. The individual points in detail:
Influenza inoculation was offered at all sites. Depending on the site, participation
ranged from six to 30 percent.
The number of occupational diseases that have a short latency period was extremely
low. Noise was the predominant cause of illness.
All production sites completed medical emergency drills.
All scheduled occupational-health checkups were completed.
All production sites participated in Group campaigns on health promotion.
Introduction of a groupwide talent-management system to foster employees of high
potential, and filling of key positions
Corporate entity Groupwide
Deadline: 2014
Implementation status: The goal was achieved. The company established a new talentmanagement process in 2013, which is valid around the world. Its aim is to identify our
employees’ potential earlier and to promote it.

41
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Employees

NEW GOALS
With an inter-site employee survey, WACKER aims to identify its organization’s strengths
and improvement potential. Furthermore, the instrument is to support managerial
employees in improving the performance within their areas of responsibility.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: 2015
“Health culture 2020” project: WACKER aims to develop its corporate health culture
further in order to improve staff health and keep employees fit for work.
Corporate entity: WACKER Germany
Deadline: Implementation from 2016 on, sustainable improvements by 2020

FUTURE TOPICS
New Executive-Development Programs
We will continue with the new approach to executive development that we started in
2014. In 2015, we launched two new formats for experienced managerial employees.
The Learning Company seminar allows participants to assume different leadership roles
as part of a model organization and obtain feedback on their performance from
experienced instructors. During the External Peer Reflection program, our managers can
exchange ideas with managerial employees of the same hierarchical level from other
companies.
Initiative to Increase Diversity and Inclusion in the Workforce
Globalization, demographic change and new regulatory requirements are making
diversity and inclusion increasingly important issues. In 2015, WACKER started a
groupwide initiative to promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce. The company
has joined the German nationwide “Diversity Charter” initiative. As a first step, we want
to raise awareness for the topic among our management employees with the aid of
incentive and discussion events. As a second step, the regions and departments will
develop their own diversity and inclusion strategies and goals. WACKER Germany is
focusing on gender age/experience, and cultural background.

42
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Society

Society
FUTURE TOPICS
WACKER Revises CHEM2DO Experiment Kit
WACKER is continuing to develop its experiment kit. After two years of experience in
actual school settings, we have worked with our educational partners on a systematic
evaluation of the 2012 version of CHEM2DO (which has by now run out). Our aim here is
to adapt the kit to better meet schools’ circumstances and children’s prior knowledge,
and we have incorporated feedback and suggestions for improvement from teachers.
The kit will be available beginning in the fall of 2015.

43
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management
46 Vision and Goals		
48 Business Principles
50 Voluntary Commitments
52 Organization

Power and salt are the building blocks of working
life, or at least they are for chemist Dr. Guido
Kallinger, who heads the base chemicals unit at
WACKER’s Burghausen site. Every morning at 8 a.m.,
he meets his management team and discusses the
day’s schedule. Almost the entire Burghausen site is
dependent on the services of this management team
and their staff members – without their efforts, the
production plants would be idle.

Vision and Goals

Vision and Goals
Founded on a vision and goals, our strategy is an appreciation of what we aspire to
achieve. Our focus is on profitable growth and securing a leading competitive position in
most of our business fields. The fact that we have made sustainability one of our strategic
goals emphasizes its importance.
WACKER’s Vision
We develop intelligent solutions for sustainable growth.
WACKER, as an innovative chemical company, makes a vital contribution to improving the
quality of life around the world.
In the future, we want to continue developing and supplying solutions that meet our
rigorous demands – creating added value for our customers and shareholders, and growing
sustainably.
WACKER’s Goals
WACKER pr
products
oducts and solutions ar
are
e our customers’ first choice. All our activities focus
on our customers’ needs. Satisfied customers are the basis of our success. We aim to
continuously raise our product quality and enhance our services. The better we succeed
at this, the more we can grow with our customers, deepen our understanding of their
needs and provide them with higher added value. To achieve this, WACKER focuses
on direct contact and on exchanging information personally. Through our technical
competence centers and the WACKER ACADEMY, we work closely with customers to
develop tailored solutions. Our strength lies in our long-term relationships, based on
trust, with the people in our markets.
We want to be one of the world’
world’ss best employers. Our employees’ health and safety
are our greatest assets. At WACKER, the success we achieve together is based on a
supportive and challenging environment. We ensure that our employees can develop
their skills, realize their potential, assume responsibility, act proactively and contribute
their own ideas by offering them basic and advanced training opportunities. What we
expect is a performance-oriented mindset, coupled with sound professional and social
skills. To this end, we want to provide secure jobs, exceptional employee benefits and a
work culture that facilitates a positive work-life balance. Clearly focused on commercial
success, we value teamwork that is based on mutual reliance, trust and fairness.
We open up new markets with pr
product
oduct and pr
process
ocess innovations for tomorr
tomorrow’
ow’ss world.
We develop products that are vital for tomorrow’s world. That’s why we invest in
research and development. Our innovative strength is reflected in the high sales
percentage of new products. We know how to transfer new production methods from
development to globally competitive plants. At WACKER, innovation also means
“making what is good even better.” Our “Wacker Operating System” (WOS) program
aims at systematically optimizing our processes. Employees receive the necessary
training at our own WOS ACADEMY. As the quality and cost leader in many of our
business sectors, we realize that “becoming better is a never-ending process.”
We continuously incr
increase
ease our company value. WACKER sees itself as a performanceoriented company, geared toward increasing its long-term value. Economic success is
essential for pursuing and achieving our strategic goals. Our annual sales should grow
more than world GNP. We want to be among the most profitable companies in our
industry. This is why value-based management is fundamental to our corporate policies.
We measure our success against clearly defined key parameters and continuously focus

46
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Vision and Goals

on earning more than our cost of capital. We want to be among the top three suppliers in
each of our business sectors. To this end, we always strive to strengthen our competitive
edge in cost, quality and technology.
Our responsibility as a company extends beyond our business activities. Our
commitment to sustainability encompasses ecological, economical and social aspects.
Our actions are guided by the underlying principles of the UN’s Global Compact and
the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative. Our products, technologies and
processes meet the highest standards. For years, sustainability has been an integral part
of WACKER’s production and business processes. One of our greatest strengths is our
closed material loops, where we use by-products from one production stage as starting
materials for making other products. This reduces our consumption of energy and other
resources.
Our strong sense of social responsibility is based on deeply rooted values. We pursue
this commitment in the vicinity of our sites and wherever people are in distress around
the world. Society’s trust in our actions is an essential component of our long-term
economic success.
Our strategic goals are oriented toward the highly promising fields of energy, urbanization
and construction, digitalization, and rising affluence in emerging countries. WACKER offers
products that satisfy these global trends.

Executive Development

WACKER Products
Energy

Polysilicon, and dispersible polymer powders for the
insulation of buildings

Urbanization and
construction

Silicone resin emulsion paints, dispersible polymer
powders (tile adhesives, flooring and sealing systems),
dispersions for paints and coatings

Digitalization

Silicon wafers, silicones for encapsulation of electronic
components, polysilicon

Greater affluence in
emerging countries

Silicones (textiles, construction, electronics, cosmetics),
cyclodextrins (food/agriculture), dispersible polymer
powders (construction), dispersions (paper and
packaging industries)

47
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Business Principles

Business Principles
Alongside our vision and goals, our business principles represent the third pillar of our
corporate policy guidelines. These principles – laid down in five corporate codes – govern
how the Group should achieve its objectives. The five codes are the Code of Safety,
the Code of Conduct, the Code of Innovation, the Code of Teamwork & Leadership, and
the Code of Sustainability. The codes are supplemented by a body of regulations and
directives.

Megatrends
Vision
We develop intelligent solutions for sustainable growth.
Customers
WACKER
products and
solutions are our
customers’ first
choice.

Code of Safety

Employees
We want to be
one of the
world’s best
employers.

Innovations
We tap new
markets via
product and
process
innovations for
tomorrow’s
world.

Code of
Conduct

Code of
Innovation

Company
Value
We
continuously
increase our
company value.

Code of
Teamwork &
Leadership

Sustainability
Our
responsibility as
a company
extends beyond
our business
activities.

Code of
Sustainability

Regulations
Directives

Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct contains our principles on interactions with business partners and
third parties. It also regulates how we deal with information, confidentiality and data
security, protection against money laundering and keeping private and company interests
separate.
Code of Conduct (PDF)
Code of Innovation
The Code of Innovation specifies our principles as applicable to R&D, cooperation, patents
and innovation management.
Code of Innovation (PDF)

48
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Business Principles

Code of Teamwork & Leadership
The Code of Teamwork & Leadership outlines our understanding of collaboration and
management. There is special emphasis on trust and respect, motivation and success,
recognition and development, teamwork and equal opportunities, work-life balance and
the role-model function of managers.
Code of Teamwork & Leadership (PDF)
Code of Safety
The Code of Safety defines our safety culture and sets safety regulations for workplaces,
plants, products and transport.
Code of Safety (PDF)
Code of Sustainability
The Code of Sustainability details principles of sustainability with which R&D, procurement
and logistics, production and products, as well as our social commitment, must comply.
Code of Sustainability (PDF)

49
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Voluntary Commitments

Voluntary Commitments
Two voluntary global initiatives form the basis for sustainable corporate management
at WACKER: the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative and the UN’s Global
Compact. WACKER has been an active member of the Responsible Care® initiative since
1991. Program participants are committed to continually improve health, safety and
environmental performance on a voluntary basis – even in the absence of statutory
requirements.
WACKER Greater China won the Responsible Care® Chairman’s Award in 2013. With
this award, the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers in China (AICM)
acknowledged WACKER’s endeavors in environmental and health protection, as well as in
plant and workplace safety. WACKER Greater China, together with about 40 other chemical
companies, renewed its voluntary commitment to the Chinese Responsible Care® program
in 2014. This WACKER region first joined the initiative in 2008.
We attach equal importance to economic and social goals. This explains our strong focus
on environmental protection, plant process safety (for both employees and neighbors),
occupational safety, and product safety (for customers and end users).
The UN’s Global Compact is another guideline for our actions. We joined the initiative in
2006. Member companies commit to implementing the Global Compact’s ten principles,
which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International
Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. We observe these principles, which
address social and environmental standards, anticorruption and the protection of human
rights.
Human Rights
Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence, and
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labor Standar
Standards
ds
Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective
recognition of the right to collective bargaining,
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor,
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor, and
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

50
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Voluntary Commitments

Envir
Environmental
onmental Pr
Protection
otection
Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental
challenges,
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility, and
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies.
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including
extortion and bribery.

51
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management Structures for Sustainability

Management Structures for Sustainability
Wacker Chemie AG’s four-member Executive Board oversees the Group’s strategies,
resources, infrastructure and organizational structure. Dr. Rudolf Staudigl is the Board’s
President and CEO. Other members are Dr. Joachim Rauhut, Dr. Tobias Ohler and Auguste
Willems, who is responsible for sustainability.
An Executive Board Meeting is WACKER’s highest decision-making authority. Below the
Executive Board, there are various committees whose membership spans several
organizational sectors and legal entities. These committees ensure that corporate
strategies are implemented groupwide.

Coordinating Sustainability at WACKER

Committees / Meetings with Specific Executive Board Members

Executive Board Meeting
Corporate Strategy Committee
Corporate EHS1
Meeting

EHS Strategy Meeting

R&D2 Projects
Conference

Supply Chain
Conference

Health Promotion
Steering Committee

Corporate or Other Departments

1

Group Innovation
Meeting

Functions

Corporate
Sustainability

Human Resources

Group Compliance
Officer

Regional Compliance
Officers

Research &
Development

Executive Personnel

Group Coordinator for
the Environment

Group Coordinator for
Health

Group Safety
Coordinator

Group Coordinator for
Product Safety

Group Coordinator for
Hazardous Goods

Group Coordinator for
Export Controls

Legal Officers and
Representatives

Sustainability Officers

IMS3 Coordinators

Divisional R&D

Environment, Health, Safety
Research & Development
3
Integrated Management System
2

52
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management Structures for Sustainability

The Corporate Strategy Committee (KUS), for example, deliberates on strategically
important processes, potential market or competitor developments, and key special topics
not directly related to daily operations. The committee comprises the entire Executive
Board, business-division presidents and corporate-department heads.
The main committees for environment, health, safety and product safety are the annual
Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Meetings and EHS Strategy Meetings, led
by the Executive Board member responsible for EHS & PS. Employee health is addressed
once a year by the Health Promotion Steering Committee chaired by WACKER’s personnel
director. The Supply Chain Conference focuses on the Group’s productivity projects and
goals and is led by the Executive Board member responsible for Corporate Engineering.
The Group Innovation Meeting and the R&D Projects Conference cover innovation
strategies and projects.
Environmental, health and safety officers meet for an international EHS & PS Conference
once a year. Here, participants exchange experiences and discuss the progress of
sustainability-related topics that apply groupwide. EHS & PS management focused on
Europe in 2013 and on Asia in 2014. Related activities involved an increasing number of
on-site inspections at our various plants.
The Corporate Sustainability department oversees the implementation of WACKER’s
voluntary commitments under Responsible Care® and the Global Compact and
coordinates our sustainability activities worldwide.

53
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Personnel Responsibility

Personnel Responsibility
Our Compliance Organization focuses on compliance with legal requirements and internal
company regulations. The Group compliance officer supervises and guides a network of
regional compliance officers.
Responsibility for the key areas of environment, health and safety, export control,
hazardous materials, and product stewardship rests with the Group coordinators. In this
capacity, they report directly to the WACKER Executive Board, and define groupwide
standards in the form of goals and processes. These standards are to be followed by
every corporate sector and site worldwide. Alongside the Group coordinators, WACKER
has legally mandated officers for managing specific areas in the respective regions (for
example, in Germany, there are incidents officers and liaison officers for severely disabled
staff).
Workplace and plant safety are of vital importance at WACKER. This is why we define
safety goals in the annual performance reviews together with Executive Personnel and
management employees in Germany. They are mandatory personal goals, especially for
executives in production-related areas. They also influence the final performance
evaluation.

54
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management Systems

Management Systems
We control operational processes via our integrated management system (IMS). The
system describes workflows and responsibilities, and defines groupwide standards for
quality, workplace and plant safety, environmental and health protection, and energy
management. It is based on customer demands, statutory regulations, our own sustainable
business principles, and national and international standards.
WACKER’s voluntary commitments regarding the Responsible Care® and Global Compact
initiatives exceed legislative requirements. We use the IMS to control additional
sustainability-related topics, for instance the effective use of resources such as energy
in our production processes. We have our Group management system evaluated by an
international certification organization in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001
(environmental protection) standards, and our German sites as per ISO 50001 (energy).
At Siltronic, every site is certified to ISO/TS 16949 (quality), ISO 14001 and OHSAS
18001 (plant safety and occupational health and safety), due to this subsidiary’s specific
processes and customer requirements.

Integrated Management-System Standards

Our Group certification ensures that customer-driven specifications and our corporate
standards are implemented at all WACKER sites. In 2013 and 2014, we expanded our
Group certification to include our Jincheon site in South Korea and the technical
competence center in Mumbai, India (certified to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001). We have
merged Wacker Chemie AG’s ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certification with that of Siltronic
AG.
Our processes and standards relating to occupational health and safety and plant safety
will be aligned with the international OHSAS 18001 standard by 2015. Both our Siltronic
subsidiary and our Jincheon site already have an OHSAS certificate. The German sites
introduced an OHSAS management system in 2013. The Jandira site in Brazil passed an
external audit in line with this standard.
Almost all WACKER production sites are now included in the Group certificate. Exceptions
are our Brazilian sites, Wacker Metroark Chemicals Pvt. Ltd.’s plant in Kolkata, India, and
the Halle, Germany site, which we acquired from Scil Proteins Production GmbH in 2014.
These have corresponding individual certificates, though.

55
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Management Systems

In the reporting period, the Chinese subsidiary Wacker Chemicals (Zhangjiagang) Co.,
Ltd. obtained certification as a Clean Production company. The Chinese Environmental
Protection Bureau reviewed corporate environmental protection in the course of
certification, assessing, for example, savings in electricity, raw materials, fresh water, and
waste.

56
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Controlled Documents and Controlling Instruments

Controlled Documents and Controlling
Instruments
At WACKER, twenty-one groupwide regulations govern topics of overall significance for the
company. They concern management, organization and collaboration, law and compliance,
strategy and business processes as well as financing, controlling, accounting and taxes.
Numerous other controlled documents regulate processes for environmental and health
protection, plant and workplace safety, and product safety, on a Group, regional and sitespecific level.
All our processes are designed to keep customers satisfied, meet our obligations to
society, and to secure WACKER’s competitiveness. Each of our sites achieves these goals
in different ways. At Siltronic’s Portland site (Oregon, USA), a very effective “Quality and
Value Improvement System” uses a wide range of control mechanisms – such as balanced
scorecards, and systems for developing, prioritizing and tracking action plans. So that
employees can view action plans and success rates at any time, Portland publishes them
in a database and on a bulletin board.
Since 2012, we have been using the WACKER® Eco Assessment Tool to evaluate
systematically the risks and opportunities of our product line from an environmental
perspective. We take account of material, water and energy consumption, as well as
ecotoxicity, over the entire product life cycle.
The Group’s corporate carbon footprint report is an important tool for improving climate
protection. That’s why we have been determining not only our direct greenhouse gas
emissions (as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1) and indirect emissions from boughtin energy (Scope 2), but also our Scope 3 emissions since 2012. These include emissions
generated along the supply chain, e.g. by suppliers or through waste disposal and the
transportation of products. In 2014, we added further Scope 3 categories and adapted our
calculation methodology to the GHG Protocol guidance for the chemical industry. In the
period under review, we forwarded these emissions data to the Carbon Disclosure Project
(CDP). Founded in 2000, CDP is a non-profit organization working to achieve greater
transparency in greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2013, our new IT system for sustainability reporting (SPIRIT) was implemented
groupwide, replacing the various individual systems. We use the new software to collect
and manage environmental and energy data, environment- and safety-related incidents,
and Integrated Management System (IMS) inspections and audits. In 2014, we benefited
from the use of this instrument at all our large production sites. It has replaced almost
70 percent of our former systems.

57
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Productivity Programs

Productivity Programs
High productivity throughout the supply chain is a key to WACKER’s success. WACKER
boosts productivity along the entire supply chain via its Wacker Operating System (WOS)
program. Our goal is to continue to reduce specific operating costs every year. WOS results
are regularly reported to the Executive Board.
2013 and 2014 saw the implementation of more than 1,000 projects at our operating
divisions and corporate departments. Some 700 of these concerned our operating
divisions, with the corporate departments accounting for 300. The focus of WOS was on
improving plant utilization levels, specific energy consumption and raw-material yields, and
optimizing specific maintenance costs. The WOS measures implemented over the twoyear reporting period yielded a business value contribution of some €280 million.
Established by WACKER in 2009 to further cement WOS within the company, the WOS
ACADEMY offers training in productivity topics. Participants are given hands-on training in
specific projects at the various plants and are thus able to apply the methods immediately.
The WOS ACADEMY instructors act as advisors during these projects. In 2013 and 2014,
the WOS ACADEMY trained some 180 employees in the application of new productivity
methods, such as Six Sigma.

58
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Idea Management

Idea Management
Ideas Submitted by WACKER Employees

The ideas submitted by its employees help WACKER to do things better and stay
competitive. The number of improvements suggested by our employees fell in 2014 for the
first time after four uninterrupted years of increases. In total, we received 7,672 ideas (2013:
9,159), roughly 16 percent less than in the previous year. The participation rate (number of
submitters per 100 employees) fell slightly to 30 percent (2013: 32 percent). The calculable
benefit rose to €8.3 million (2013: €7.7 million).
Since 2007, WACKER has been examining improvement suggestions to see whether they
could be applied to other areas, too. This so-called multiple usage has increased greatly
since its introduction. In 2014, it accounted for some additional €500,000 in savings. Over
the years, the total initial benefit amounted to €3.0 million; multiple usage generated a
further €3.3 million.
Since 1975, WACKER employees have submitted around 130,000 improvement
suggestions. Over half of these – 71,000 suggestions – have been implemented, leading
to company savings of €133 million. Submitters have received a total of €30 million in
bonuses. In the regular sector-wide comparison, WACKER ranks among the best with
respect to the number of ideas, their benefits and the premium paid per employee.
To maximize the benefits from ideas, WACKER has interlinked the Employee Suggestion
Program, the Wacker Operating System (WOS) and Innovation Management.

59
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Idea Management

Idea Management

Number of improvement suggestions

2014

2013

2012

7,672

9,159

8,982

8.4

7.7

6.4

30

32

34

Total benefits (€ million)
1

Participation rate (%)
1

Submitters per 100 employees

Chains Instead of Toothed Belts
While once again repairing an alkaline
etching facility, Siltronic employee HansJürgen Geyer had a brilliant idea: why
not replace the facility’s vulnerable
points, its toothed belts, with chains?
Toothed belts had previously made it
possible to transfer silicon wafers to and
from several process baths in a matter of
seconds. However, with time, the belts
succumbed to the highly alkaline vapors
in the facility – they became brittle and
frequently needed to be replaced. The
repair work created high costs, which
were further augmented by the
associated production outage. Since the
toothed belts have been replaced with robust chains, the facility has been running
smoothly. Geyer’s idea has provided Siltronic with an economic benefit in the five-digit
euro range and earned him a bonus in recognition.

60
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compliance

Compliance
WACKER’s ethical principles of corporate management exceed legal requirements. They
are summarized in our Code of Conduct. All WACKER employees are required to follow this
code. There are separate and/or supplemental guidelines for individual corporate sites (e.g.
WACKER Greater China’s Employee Handbook). The Group’s US companies have their
own compliance programs tailored specifically to US law.
WACKER does not tolerate violations of its Code of Conduct or of any legal requirements.
Any employee who has questions about appropriate behavior at work can receive counsel
from supervisors, employee representatives and 22 compliance officers worldwide. The
chief compliance officer reports to WACKER’s president & CEO.

61
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compliance

Compliance Officers at WACKER
Location

Company

Germany and Europe
Munich (Germany and countries not expressly
mentioned): Coordination and Management,
Group Compliance Management

Wacker Chemie AG

Stetten, Germany

Wacker Chemie AG

Holla, Norway

Wacker Chemicals Norway AS

Moscow, Russia

Wacker Chemie RUS

The Americas
Adrian (Michigan, USA)

Wacker Chemical Corp.

Portland (Oregon, USA)

Siltronic Corp.

São Paulo, Brazil

Wacker Química do Brasil Ltda.

Mexico City, Mexico

Wacker Mexicana S.A. de C.V.

Asia
Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Wacker Chemicals Middle East FZE

Hsinchu, Taiwan

Siltronic Taiwan branch office

Kolkata, India

Wacker Metroark Chemicals Pvt. Ltd.

Mumbai, India

Wacker Chemie India Ltd.

Shanghai, China

Wacker Chemicals China Company Ltd.
(Holding)

Shunde, China

Wacker Dymatic (Shunde) Company Ltd.

Nanjing, China

Wacker Polymer Systems (Nanjing) Company
Ltd.

Wuxi, China

Wacker Polymer Systems (Wuxi) Company
Ltd.

Zhangjiagang, China

Wacker Chemicals (Zhangjiagang) Company
Ltd.

Tokyo, Japan

Wacker Asahi Kasei Silicone

Tokyo, Japan

Siltronic Japan Corporation

Seoul, South Korea

Wacker Chemicals Korea Inc.

Singapore, Singapore

Siltronic Asia Pte. Ltd. / Siltronic Silicon Wafer
Pte. Ltd.

Singapore, Singapore

Wacker Chemicals South Asia Ltd.

Employees are instructed to inform their supervisors, the compliance officers, the
employee council or their designated HR contacts of any violations they notice. WACKER
follows up every justified suspicion. WACKER Greater China has a compliance hotline
that enables employees and business partners to report any breaches anonymously.
Furthermore, every year, employees in the region must sign a declaration regarding proper
conduct.

62
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compliance

Employees who have regular business contacts must complete a mandatory online course
on compliance. Enforced throughout the Group, the course also covers antitrust law. All
WACKER sales and marketing employees must additionally undergo an online training
on European antitrust law (WACKER Antitrust Program) and receive detailed instruction
in antitrust law at classroom seminars. In addition to online training, employees have the
opportunity to attend courses on the subject during divisional and regional meetings and
international sales conferences. US staff receive antitrust law training tailored to the law
there. In Germany, online training on data protection complements the compliance courses.
WACKER’s compliance programs are designed to prevent misconduct, minimize the
repercussions of misconduct, and – in accordance with the UN’s Global Compact – identify
any cases of corruption or other legal infringements. To promote compliance, we use such
organizational methods as the separation of responsibility and our dual-control policy.
Separation of responsibility makes it impossible for any one employee to single-handedly
carry out transactions involving payments. The purchasing unit is thus quite distinct from
the ordering unit. Dual control ensures that every critical transaction is checked by a
second person.
In the period under review, Compliance Management devised globally applicable measures
in consultation with international sites to ensure compliance with local requirements.
Another focal point was protection against cybercrime. Employees working in high risk
areas, such as accounting and finance, received instruction in effective strategies to
combat cyberattacks.
As of 2014, employees involved in import and export processes must complete online
training on export control every two years. Individuals working in particularly sensitive jobs,
such as managing directors of regional subsidiaries and export control representatives,
must complete a refresher course every year. Export control is based on national and
international laws and aims to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, combat
international terrorism and uphold human rights. In this regard, it is important to inspect not
only the item to be exported, but also the country of destination, the customer and the end
use of the products.
Corporate Auditing is part of our risk management system. On behalf of the Executive
Board, this department regularly reviews all corporate entities with regard to processes,
focusing on internal control systems. The Executive Board – in consultation with the
Audit Committee – adopts a risk-driven approach when choosing audit topics, which, if
necessary, are flexibly adjusted during the year to take account of changes in underlying
conditions. Processes and areas that constitute a high risk in terms of corruption or
legal non-compliance are scrutinized more frequently by the auditors. Criteria for the risk
assessment include:
Country classified as having a high risk of corruption
High possible risk of damage (financial or reputation-related)
Compliance issue (suspected cases)
Previous audit revealed substantial need for action
Legal obligation to have regular audits

63
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compliance

For capital-intensive engineering activities (e.g. project engineering and maintenance), we
employ specially qualified industrial personnel as auditors.
The auditing emphasis in 2013 and 2014 was on sales topics, the settlement of investment
projects and external maintenance work, and solving cybercrime. In addition, crossfunctional audits were used to review the business processes of eight subsidiaries.
Corporate Auditing conducted a total of 29 audits in 2014 and 30 in 2013. No major
complaints came to light. Audit recommendations to optimize processes are being
implemented and systematically followed up.
WACKER’s corporate culture is characterized by mutual respect and trust. However,
inappropriate behavior on the part of individual employees can never be eliminated. In
these cases, we rely on our internal risk assessments.

Compliance Cases
2014

2013

2012

–

–

–

Number of organizational units subjected to
corruption audit

29

30

32

Legal entities subjected to corruption audit (%)

20

17

27

50

50

50

18

24

18

8

8

7

–

–

1

–

–

–

–

–

–

Level of key fines1 and number of non-monetary
penalties for non-compliance with requirements of
environmental legislation.

2

Employees trained in corruption prevention (%)
3

Measures taken in response to violation of laws,
codes and standards
Written warnings
Termination of employment contract
Number of complaints about anticompetitive
behavior, violation of antitrust or monopolies
legislation
1

Level of key fines and number of non-monetary
penalties for breaches of legal requirements
1

Level of key fines for breaches of legal
requirements relating to the supply and use of
products and services
1
2
3

Level of key fines: starting at €10,000
Employees who have contact with external business partners receive training every two years.
That’s around 50 percent of all WACKER employees.
WACKER Germany only

64
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compliance

According to Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), WACKER is
predominantly active in countries that have a low or very low risk of corruption.

Sales Shares as a Function of Corruption Risk as per Transparency International1

1

Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) ranks countries according to the level of
corruption perceived in the public sector. The categories in this graph were compiled independently.

65
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Customer and Supplier Management

Customer and Supplier Management
WACKER provides products and services that benefit its customers. Satisfied customers
are the basis of our success. To steadily increase their satisfaction, we are in constant
dialogue with not only customers, but also suppliers and logistics providers.
SMART is the name of our customer management system that helps us maintain our
customer relationships. SMART contains customer profiles and all other relevant
information about customers. This ensures optimum customer support. The system
supports Sales, for example, with correspondence and with complaints processing. Every
complaint is entered into SMART and systematically tracked until our final reply has been
sent to the customer. Standardized measures, some of which are initiated automatically,
ensure that the affected customer and associated team are always kept up to date on the
complaint status. This helps us to enhance processes, and stops errors from recurring.
WACKER offers existing and prospective customers a further service: the WACKER
Infoline. Specialists provide advice on products and related applications by phone or email.
If someone asks a question, they get initial feedback within eight hours and a detailed
answer within 48 hours.
We regularly solicit feedback from our customers about the quality of our products and
services. WACKER POLYSILICON, for example, conducts annual customer surveys. The
Siltronic business division analyzes the supplier evaluations which its major customers
conduct each year. The surveys and comparative analyses have repeatedly confirmed
WACKER’s excellent reputation over the years.
WACKER customers break down into three groups: global key accounts, customers, and
distributors. Global key accounts are customers of special strategic and high economic
significance for WACKER. We currently have some 40 global key accounts with whom
we generated around 25 percent of our 2014 revenue in the chemical divisions (WACKER
SILICONES, WACKER POLYMERS and WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS). Over 55 percent of
our chemical-related revenue was from our approximately 8,000 other active customer
relationships and around 20 percent from distributors.
Our supplier management team is another area that focuses on sustainability. Our suppliers
number approximately 11,500 (10,500 in the Technical Procurement & Logistics
department and 1,000 in Raw Materials Procurement). Over 80 percent of our suppliers
are headquartered in a member state of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD). The OECD has 34 member countries that are dedicated to the
economic and social wellbeing of people around the world. We expect our suppliers to
observe the principles of the UN’s Global Compact and the Responsible Care® initiative.
This constitutes part of our general terms of procurement. If we discern violations of these
principles during the course of our collaboration, we discuss our observations with the
supplier in question and demand improvements.
We expect our suppliers to have a management system that meets the requirements of ISO
9001 (quality) or comparable specifications such as GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice).
Furthermore, we require our industrial suppliers to be certified to ISO 14001 (environmental
protection). Our complaints management system enables us to improve processes at short

66
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Customer and Supplier Management

notice. Our key suppliers’ performance is entered into an evaluation which we discuss
with them collaboratively. WACKER honors the best suppliers and shippers at the annual
Supplier and Logistics Days held by Technical Procurement & Logistics (TPL).
Systematic review of supplier risks is an important tool at WACKER for correctly evaluating
our supplier relationships and adapting our procurement strategies accordingly. In the
reporting period, reviews were conducted using analyses from rating agencies, our own
supplier assessments and, increasingly, direct contact with our partners. In 2013 and 2014,
Technical Procurement reviewed 438 suppliers. Key criteria, whose examination depends
on the specific procurement segment, include quality, risk in the event of non-delivery,
availability and dependency, intellectual property protection and a supplier’s financial
stability.
For many years now, WACKER’s Siltronic subsidiary has been deploying its own risk
management system for suppliers as a way of securing deliveries and services in the long
term. Suppliers are assessed by criteria such as quality, delivery reliability and solvency.
The system then categorizes them according to risk. Where there is a substantial risk that
criteria will not be met, countermeasures are promptly taken.
WACKER desires to strengthen its commitment to sustainable business practices in the
supply chain. To this end, the company joined the chemical industry’s “Together for
Sustainability” (TfS) initiative in January 2015. Established in 2011, the organization aims
at developing a global program for responsible procurement of goods and services and
improving the ecological and social standards of suppliers.

67
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue with Stakeholders

Dialogue with Stakeholders
Companies must have the consent and support of society. We want to maintain regular and
open dialogue with all stakeholders. This is one of our business principles. We believe that
dialogue offers us an opportunity to prepare for new challenges promptly, avoid risks and
realize our full potential.
WACKER constantly communicates with a number of stakeholder groups throughout
the world: employees, customers, suppliers, analysts, investors, journalists, scientists,
neighbors and politicians, as well as representatives from NGOs, authorities and
associations. We use a monitoring and analysis tool to identify our principal stakeholders
and their expectations. We conduct this dialogue in many ways – through the outreach
activities of WACKER’s various management levels, sites and departments. The focus is
always on face-to-face discussions, i.e. on direct contact. What’s more, we communicate
with stakeholders through:
Surveys (e.g. on workplace safety, sustainability and reputation)
Publications (annual report, press releases, employee newspaper, etc.)
Special events (open-house days, supplier days, investor roadshows, management
events, etc.)
Tradeshows
Committee work and presentations
Digital media are growing in importance compared to conventional communication
formats. Professional social networks are opportunities for companies, customers and
experts to share information on products and applications and thereby support their
business activities. In 2013, WACKER set up its own sites on YouTube, Twitter and
LinkedIn.
WACKER has been participating in the sustainability assessments of the Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP) since 2007. In 2014, WACKER was listed for the first time in the Carbon
Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the German-speaking region (Germany, Austria,
Switzerland and South Tyrol), having achieved a score of 95 B. We thus outperformed our
peer group in the MDAX in this respect. After achieving a result of 86 B in 2013, we defined
our CO2 reduction target and elaborated our reporting on opportunities and risks and on
indirect emissions generated along the supply chain (Scope 3).
WACKER performed well in a 2014 assessment by rating agency oekom research AG with
an overall grade of B–. oekom’s rating methodology classifies our company as “Prime.”
This means that WACKER securities traded on the market qualify for investment from an
ecological and social point of view. oekom customers include financial services providers
that have invested volumes exceeding €600 billion based on oekom sustainability research.
oekom research has been assessing WACKER since 2008.
In 2014, the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) honored three companies on
a national level for outstanding site communications projects. Our Burghausen site took
second place with its “Get to Know and Trust WACKER” project. The site operates
a systematic communications program that reaches out to neighbors, regional political
bodies and non-governmental organizations.

68
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue with Stakeholders

In 2014, we quizzed our stakeholders about WACKER’s sustainability efforts and its
reputation. A total of 224 individuals with links to our company filled out online
questionnaires or took part in telephone interviews. The survey was conducted in Germany,
China and the USA among other countries. It included analysts, customers, suppliers,
employees and politicians, as well as representatives from authorities and NGOs. Its
outcome showed that WACKER enjoys a very good reputation among the various
stakeholder groups. We scored a high figure of 84 points in the reputation stakes – this
compares with the average score for industrial companies and service providers of just
51 points. WACKER’s good reputation stems primarily from the high level of trust which
is placed in the company. Some 72 percent of stakeholder representatives are genuine
ambassadors for WACKER. They trust the company and have confidence in its ability to
deliver.

Reputation Drivers for WACKER

5 is the maximum value

The aim of the sustainability survey was to find out how these interest groups viewed our
commitment to sustainability and where they saw room for improvement. Evaluation of the
online questionnaires revealed that our sustainability efforts are viewed very favorably and
reach the same survey level as in 2012.

Opinion of Sustainability Performance

1 = poor to 5 = excellent
1

2014: 224 participants
2012: 201 participants
3 2010: 203 participants
2

69
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue with Stakeholders

Stakeholders ranked WACKER highly to very highly in the following areas: environmental
protection, safety of production facilities, promotion of workplace safety and employee
health, as well as product and transport safety. They named the following as future
challenges: diversity / equal opportunity, sustainable working conditions within the supply
chain, biodiversity, creation and retention of jobs, and regional commitment.

Action Matrix

A key challenge raised in the 2012 and 2014 stakeholder surveys was sustainable working
conditions within the supply chain. We have intensified our work on this topic. In January
2015, we joined the “Together for Sustainability” (TfS) initiative. This initiative is based on
established principles such as those subscribed to by the UN’s Global Compact and the
Responsible Care® sustainability initiative. Together, the TfS members organize supplier
evaluations using questionnaire analyses and audits, whereby the suppliers’ sustainability
performance is assessed by independent auditing bodies based on criteria tailored to
the chemical industry. Aspects that are assessed range from the environment, health and
safety, labor and human rights to ethical company management. The audits include on-site
checks, particularly in risk regions.

70
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Awards and Prizes

Awards and Prizes
WACKER has supplied customers with high-quality products and outstanding services for
many years. Customer satisfaction is the cornerstone of our success and is reflected in the
customer awards we have received.

Quality Awards 2013
Award

Recipient

Sponsor

Regional Supplier Recognition Award

Siltronic AG

Texas Instruments

PQS Award 2013 – Preferred Quality Supplier

Siltronic AG

Intel

Supplier Award 2013

Siltronic AG

X-Fab Malaysia

Supplier of the Year Award 2013

Siltronic Corporation

Fairchild
Semiconductor

Perfect Quality Award 2013

Siltronic Corporation

On Semiconductor

Long-term Partnership Award

Siltronic Corporation

ASMC China

Supplier Award 2013

Siltronic Japan
Corporation

Shindengen

Best Supplier Award

Siltronic Singapore

SSMC

Partner-to-Win-Award

Wacker Chemie AG

Unilever

Supplier Award 2013

Wacker Chemie AG

Wrigley

Supplier Recognition Award 2012

Wacker Chemie AG

Procter & Gamble
Colombia

Award for 20-year collaboration

WACKER France

Progress Silicones

Award for quality and solution expertise

WACKER Australia

Parchem

71
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Awards and Prizes

Quality Awards 2014
Award

Recipient

Sponsor

PQS Award 2014 – Preferred Quality
Supplier

Siltronic AG

Intel

Supplier Excellence Award 2014

Siltronic AG

Texas Instruments

Supplier Award 2014 as Best Global Supplier Siltronic AG
Best Innovation Contributor 2014, Beauty
Care category

X-FAB

Wacker Chemie AG Henkel

Preferred Supplier for Elastomers and
Thermosets

Wacker Chemie AG Robert Bosch GmbH

Award for VINNAPAS: the dry-mix mortar
industry’s most effective brand

WACKER Greater
China

Chinese Dry-Mix
Association

Most Valuable Supplier of the Waterproofing
Industry

WACKER Greater
China

Chinese Waterproofing
Association

2014 BJX Cup CREC Top 10 Photovoltaic
Raw Material and Accessory Company

WACKER Greater
China

GUANGFU.BJX.COM.CN,
CREC Organizing
Committee

72
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Awards and Prizes

Very Well-Prepared for an Emergency
Companies want to ensure that their
suppliers remain able to deliver even
under extreme conditions. The severe
earthquake in Japan in 2011 and the
subsequent nuclear disaster at Fukushima sensitized the semiconductor
industry to this issue, in particular. As a
result, Siltronic customers have
frequently inspected the division’s crisis
management over recent years – for
example, Fujitsu in 2014. The Japanese
electronics giant scrutinized
management (emergency plan to
maintain delivery capacity, suppliers and
communications) and continuity (manufacturing, materials and supplies, utilities,
personnel, and IT systems) at the Burghausen, Freiberg and Singapore sites. Conclusion:
Fujitsu rates Siltronic well above the average in all individual categories. The result can
equally be applied to evaluation by other companies: customers such as Intel, Texas
Instruments and Analog Devices use similar rating criteria for this type of supplier
evaluation.

73
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environment
77 Environmental Protection Costs
78 Environmental Protection in
Production
104 Nature Conservation and
Biodiversity
106 Logistics and Transport

Since WACKER acquired the Norwegian site in
Holla in 2010, continuous expansion of
environmental protection has been on the
agenda for the energy-intensive silicon-metal
production there. The team has now achieved a
considerable reduction in dust emissions.

Environmental Protection

Environmental Protection
WACKER attaches particular importance to integrated environmental protection. This
commences with product development and plant planning. In accordance with the core
ideas of the Responsible Care® initiative, our environmental protection measures often go
beyond what is legally required. WACKER continuously works on improving its production
processes to conserve resources. One of our main tasks is to close material loops and
recycle by-products from other areas back into production, enabling us to reduce or
prevent emissions and waste.

76
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environmental Protection Costs

Environmental Protection Costs
In 2014, WACKER invested €5.1 million in environmental protection (2013: €5.4 million).
Environmental operating costs amounted to €88.2 million (2013: €89.4 million). An example
of investment in environmental protection is the Nünchritz site, where WACKER invested
€2.2 million in a new cooling system for silicone production. This efficient new system
consumes less energy and the ammonia content in the refrigerant circuit dropped from 13
metric tons to 360 kilograms.

Operations manager Dr. Uwe Strauch in
front of the new cooling system at the
Nünchritz site. The system pumps over 100
cubic meters of brine through pipelines
across the site every hour in order to cool
down various processes involved in the
production of silicones.

Environmental Protection Costs
€ million

2014

2013

2012

Operating costs

88.2

89.4

79.3

5.1

5.4

8.6

4.1

2.9

2.4

–

–

0.6

Air pollution control

0.8

2.4

5.3

Climate protection

0.2

0.1

0.2

Soil remediation

0.0

0.1

0.1

–

–

–

Investments
Investments in Environmental Protection
Water pollution control
Waste management

Nature conservation and landscape management

77
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environmental Protection in Production

Environmental Protection in Production
The authorities value our voluntary commitment to environmental protection. In the period
under review, our Ulsan site in South Korea, for example, again successfully completed
the audits requested by the South Korean Ministry of Environment (MoE), the city of Ulsan
and the Nam-Gu district. The audits covered the topics of air, water, waste, hazardous
substances and odors.
We have established groupwide environmental protection standards that apply to all
production sites and technical centers. The respective site managers monitor legal
compliance in environmental issues and adherence to local environmental standards.
The Group Coordinator for the Environment checks the implementation of environmental
standards in practice at the sites and performs random checks to verify legal compliance.

78
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environmental Performance Assessment

Environmental Performance Assessment
Since 2004, WACKER has been using a system to assess its sites’ environmental
performance. This system is used to convert a site’s total emissions and resource and
energy consumption into environmental units which also include the use of water and
amount of waste generated.
The environmental performance assessment incorporates both absolute quantities and
weighting factors, which take account of four criteria:
Environmental impact
Safety of treatment/disposal
Requirements imposed by environmental legislation and corporate policy
Public acceptance
Since 2011, our environmental performance assessment has included our silicon-metal
plant in Holla (Norway), acquired in 2010. The environmental impact of metallurgical
production there differs greatly from that of WACKER’s typical chemical operations.
Airborne emissions, in particular, have risen as a result of the acquisition. As of 2013,
environmental performance assessment reporting no longer differentiates between these
two areas. 2014 was the first year in which the accounting of key environmental indicators
also included consolidated reporting on 300 mm wafer production in Singapore.
Energy consumption – electricity and heat consumption included in the environmental
units – is very important to WACKER due to public awareness of the significance of
greenhouse gases and international climate-protection agreements. Emissions of carbon
dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases are largely energy-related at WACKER. The
number of environmental units increased by around 3 percent between 2012 and 2014.
In terms of production volumes, we improved by 11 percent relative to 2012. At the
Burghausen site, we have lowered the specific environmental units (which are measured
against production volumes) by 56 percent over the past ten years.

Environmental Units for Chemical Production Sites

Environmental units1

2014

2013

2012

136,527

130,729

132,740

14,972

14,357

13,164

9.1

9.1

10.1

Gross production volume in 1,000 metric tons
Environmental units per 1,000 metric tons of gross
production2
1

2

The method for calculating the total volume of non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) emitted by
our production facilities was amended in 2014. The data analysis was harmonized and additional substances
were taken into account. The Environmental Performance Assessment for preceding years was adjusted.
The environmental units per 1,000 metric tons of gross production were reported in consolidated form for
chemical production and silicon-metal production in Holla, Norway.

79
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Integrated Production

Integrated Production
WACKER’s integrated production system is its greatest strength. Compared with its
competitors, WACKER has the key competitive advantage of highly integrated material
loops at its major production sites in Burghausen, Nünchritz and Zhangjiagang. Basically,
integrated production involves using the byproducts from one stage as starting materials
for making other products. Auxiliaries required for this process, such as silanes, are
recycled in a closed loop and we utilize waste heat from one process in other chemical
processes. The result is lower specific production costs (costs per net production volume)
compared with open production processes. Integrated production allows us to lower
energy and resource consumption, use raw materials more efficiently and, at the same
time, integrate environmental protection measures into production processes. Through our
integrated production sites, we create synergies in the supply of raw materials and energy.
Our integrated production system is primarily based on salt, silicon and ethylene as
starting materials. In our integrated processes, we optimize material efficiency by purifying
byproducts and reusing them or making them available for external use. Examples:
In our integrated ethylene production system, we use ethylene to obtain organic
intermediates, which we then turn into polymer dispersions and dispersible polymer
powders.
Our integrated silicon production system operates along similar lines. Although
comprising only a small number of raw materials – silicon, methanol and salt (sodium
chloride) – this system enables us to manufacture over 2,800 different silicone products,
as well as pyrogenic silica and polysilicon.
A further focus of our integrated production is to minimize hydrogen chloride consumption.
Hydrogen chloride is an essential auxiliary deployed in the production of reactive
intermediates from energy-poor natural materials. We then use these intermediates to
make our end products. Hydrogen chloride production requires a lot of energy. In our
integrated material loop, we recover both hydrogen chloride and some of the energy in the
form of heating steam during the conversion of the chlorine-containing intermediates to
chlorine-free end products (such as hyperpure silicon or pyrogenic silica). We then return
the recovered hydrogen chloride to the production loop and reuse it. This closed material
loop reduces emissions and, due to lower raw-material consumption, shipment journeys.
For over 12 years, we have been using a chlor-alkali membrane process to supply chlorine,
hydrogen, caustic soda and hydrogen chloride as starting materials to our Burghausen
site. Since 2000, this membrane electrolysis has enabled us to stop using mercury-based
chlorine electrolysis and simultaneously cut energy consumption by around 25 percent per
year. Thus, WACKER has fulfilled the chemical industry’s voluntary commitment to phase
out mercury-based processes by 2020 well ahead of schedule.

80
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Integrated Production

Integrated Hydrogen Chloride System

Examples of savings potential for resources through our integrated production system:
We recycle 94.6 percent (2013: 94.1 percent) of the hydrogen chloride that we use in the
production loops at our Burghausen and Nünchritz sites.
In 2014, our integrated production system in Burghausen prevented the emission of
883,968 metric tons of CO2 equivalents (2013: 867,625 metric tons). Due to this high
reutilization rate, less fresh hydrogen chloride needs to be generated and, consequently,
there are savings in the transportation of raw materials and in energy consumption.
49 percent of the heat used by Burghausen stems from the site’s integrated heatutilization system (2013: 45 percent).
We optimized the hydrogen loops in our integrated polysilicon production system and
thus significantly lowered the consumption of hydrogen extracted from natural gas.
This has led to a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of 13,800 metric tons per year
compared with 2012.
Zhangjiagang in China – alongside Burghausen (Bavaria) and Nünchritz (Saxony) – is our
third major integrated production site. We rely on state-of-the-art environmental technology
in China, too, where we operate facilities according to stringent national and WACKER
EH&S standards.

81
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Integrated Production

Excellent Sustainability Work in China
Work on our Chinese integrated
production sites in Nanjing and
Zhangjiagang complies with groupwide
environmental, health and safety (EH&S)
standards. In our state-of-the-art
manufacturing processes, we use raw
materials efficiently and attempt to
procure them locally to the greatest
possible degree. When building these
plants, we took account of energy-saving
design and cutting-edge environmentalprotection technology. Integrated
production plays an important role in
helping to reduce emissions and to
manage logistics and transportation
Michel Houmard, vice president of Operations at
WACKER Greater China, holding the Responsible
efficiently.
Care® Best Facilitator Award 2014.

The China Petroleum Chemical Industry
Federation honored this commitment and presented WACKER Greater China with the
Responsible Care® Best Facilitator Award 2014, the Energy Saving and Emission
Reduction Award 2014 and the Responsible Care® Award 2013. WACKER Greater China
also received the Responsible Care® Chairman’s Award 2013 from the Association of
International Chemical Manufacturers and an award for environmental protection and
safety from the Nanjing Chemical Industry Park in 2013.

82
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Energy

Energy
Energy Targets: Lowering Specific Energy Consumption by 2022

The chemical industry is one of the most energy-intensive sectors. In Germany alone, it
uses around 20 percent of all the electricity consumed by industry. WACKER is therefore
also continually improving the energy efficiency of its processes. This enables us to
remain globally competitive and to support climate protection. Many chemical reactions
generate heat that can be put to use in other production processes. We have been
using integrated heat-recovery systems in Burghausen and Nünchritz for years and are
continually improving them. In this way, we can reduce the amount of primary energy (as a
rule, natural gas) that our power plants consume.
To further improve energy efficiency and reduce specific energy consumption (amount of
energy per unit of net production output), the Executive Board has defined energy targets
for WACKER Germany. The goal is to reduce weighted specific energy consumption by a
third between 2007 and 2022.
Our energy goals ensure that we meet one of the requirements of the energy management
system as per ISO 50001, which we have introduced and certified at all sites of Wacker
Chemie AG, Siltronic AG and Alzwerke GmbH in Germany. Since 2014, we have thus
already been in full compliance with the legal obligation to have an energy management
system in place by 2015.

83
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Energy

Bavarian Energy Award
In 2014, Wacker Chemie AG received
the Bavarian government’s Energy
Award, which was conferred in
recognition of the Group’s highly efficient
polysilicon manufacturing operations.
Thanks to patented technology
advancements and process
optimizations, we lowered our specific
energy consumption for polysilicon
production by 29 percent.
Hyperpure polysilicon is the main raw
material for making solar modules and,
consequently, plays a vital role in
generating solar power. The Bavarian
Energy Award is conferred every two
years for outstanding innovations in
responsible energy management.

Bavaria’s state secretary for economic affairs Franz
Josef Pschierer (right) handed over the 2014 Bavarian
Energy Award to Ewald Schindlbeck, head of WACKER
POLYSILICON (left), as well as to Werner Klenk and
Claus Burkhardt of energy technology company
Burkhardt GmbH (second and third from left). The
Munich-based WACKER Group received the award for
its highly efficient polysilicon production (photo: Bayern
Innovativ).

Generating Energy Efficiently
Burghausen uses hydroelectric power to generate electricity. Our Norwegian site, Holla,
too, generates its electricity from water power. Our primary source of energy is climatefriendly natural gas.
At WACKER’s large Burghausen and Nünchritz sites, we produce steam and electricity in
cogeneration systems. In Burghausen, we operate a highly efficient combined heat and
power (CHP) plant to cover the site’s electricity and steam needs. It has a fuel efficiency
of around 85 percent. The CHP plant represents a technology that bridges the gap to
renewable energy systems, since it contributes to CO2 savings, unlike uncoupled electricity
and steam generation. Its capacity makes it a so-called systemic facility that contributes to
stabilizing the public grid.
These combined heat and power (CHP) plants have more than 80-percent fuel efficiency,
which is significantly higher than that of conventional plants, where electricity and heat are
generated separately.

84
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Energy

Electricity Supply

1

Burghausen and Nünchritz
Burghausen
3 Coal, lignite, oil, gas
4 Hydro, wind, solar power
5 Outside Germany, we purchase electricity from third parties based on the local standard energy mix.
2

In 2014, absolute electricity consumption rose slightly to 4,927 GWh (2013: 4,526 GWh),
while energy efficiency measures served to lower specific energy consumption. This was
due to the consistently high utilization of our polysilicon production capacity throughout
the year. The Group’s power plants – the hydroelectric and CHP (gas and steam turbine)
generating stations in Burghausen and the CHP plant in Nünchritz – produced around
1,405 GWh in 2014 (2013: 1,457 GWh). This means that WACKER covered almost
30 percent of its total electricity needs itself.
WACKER’s German production sites accounted for 79 percent (2013: 78 percent) of
groupwide electricity needs. In Germany, we purchased enough electricity from utilities
to cover 64 percent of our electricity requirements there (2013: 59 percent). In line with
Germany’s energy mix, 56 percent of this electricity was generated from fossil fuels (2013:
51 percent). 15 percent came from nuclear energy (2013: 18 percent) and 26 percent from
renewable energy sources (2013: 31 percent). Heat consumption, which includes the use
of solid fossil and biogenic fuels (coal, charcoal and wood) in silicon-metal production in
Holla, Norway, fell by 4 percent to 3,572 GWh (2013: 3,724 GWh). We changed the way we
calculate the power-generation mix. Since 2014, our data is based on Germany’s energy
mix as per the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW).
Consumption of natural gas decreased in 2013 due to the planned shutdown of a gas
turbine at the Burghausen site. It sank further in 2014, in particular because of declining
steam demand and lower hydrogen production compared with the previous year.

85
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Energy

Energy Consumption
GWh

2014

2013

2012

Electricity consumption

4,927

4,526

4,559

Heat consumption

3,572

3,724

3,755

6,081

6,176

7,030

Natural gas

4,978

5,051

5,927

1

Solid fuels (coal, charcoal and wood)

839

872

862

Heat supplied by third parties (steam and district
heating)

244

236

223

20

17

18

Primary energy
Total
Of which

Fuel oil
1

Used as a reducing agent at the silicon-metal plant in Holla, Norway

Hydroelectric Power
The Burghausen site has been supplied
with electricity from Wacker Chemie
AG’s “Alzwerke” hydroelectric facility for
over 90 years. From December 1922 to
December 2014, this power station
generated 22,782 GWh of electricity.
Average annual production is currently at
266.1 GWh.
The Alz canal between Hirten on the Alz
river and Burghausen on the Salzach
river made it possible to harness the
water – which plunges 63 meters into the
turbines – for a hydroelectric power plant
The Alzwerke power station has been supplying the
on the banks of the Salzach. The
Burghausen site with hydroelectric power since 1922.
electricity generated by the Alzwerke
plant was the key prerequisite for the
chemical industry to settle in Burghausen. Over the past nine decades, the hydroelectric
facility has continuously increased its energy yield and annual availability.

In 2014, our Nünchritz site specifically required around 91 percent less process steam from
its CHP plant to manufacture one metric ton of product than it did in 1999, when WACKER
acquired the site. Specific CO2 emissions developed accordingly.

86
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Energy

Saving Energy with WOS
In 2014, we again improved our energy efficiency with the help of projects that form part
of our WOS (Wacker Operating System) program. At our Burghausen site, for example,
we feed cooling water that has been preheated in a compressor to the demineralization
facility, saving steam and natural gas in the manufacture of deionized water. By reducing
the pressure of the cooling water at our Nünchritz site, we have achieved electricity savings
of over 15 percent.

87
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

Air
The Group’s corporate carbon footprint report is an important tool for improving climate
protection. After determining our indirect greenhouse gas emissions from bought-in energy
(as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2) for the first time in 2011, we have also been
measuring our Scope 3 emissions since 2012. These include emissions generated along
the supply chain, e.g. by suppliers or through waste disposal and the transportation of
products.
Groupwide, carbon dioxide emissions that result from captive power plants subject to
emissions trading rules and from silicon-metal production in Holla, Norway, totaled about
1.09 million metric tons in 2014 (2013: 1.08 million metric tons). WACKER is subject to
European emissions trading at its Burghausen and Nünchritz CHP plants. Procurement
of emission allowances has been included in energy procurement planning since 2013.
Having achieved a surplus in the second trading period (2008 through 2012), we did not
have to purchase additional emission allowances for 2013. Based on a shortfall in 2014,
we bought emission allowances for the facilities we own and operate and that are subject
to emissions trading rules.
In the 2014 fiscal year, we once again forwarded our emissions data to the Carbon
Disclosure Project (CDP), which WACKER joined in 2007. Founded in London in 2000, CDP
is a non-profit organization working to achieve greater transparency in greenhouse gas
emissions.
In 2014, WACKER was listed for the first time in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index
(CDLI) for the German-speaking region (Germany, Austria, Switzerland and South Tyrol),
having achieved a score of 95 B. We thus outperformed our peer group in the MDAX in
this respect. Since 2013, with a result of 86 B, we have defined our CO2-reduction target
and expanded our reporting on opportunities, risks and indirect emissions from the supply
chain (Scope 3).
Since the fall of 2013, we have been participants in the myccf project of co2ncept plus
(German-language website) – a German association of businesses with interests in
emissions trading and climate protection issues. In this project, which is supported by the
German Federal Environmental Foundation (DBU), we are developing our corporate carbon
footprint (CCF) further. We want to expand our reporting on indirect emissions generated
along the supply chain (Scope 3).
WACKER performed well in an assessment by rating agency oekom research AG with an
overall grade of B–. oekom’s rating methodology classifies WACKER as “Prime.”
Direct Emissions
Based on carbon dioxide equivalents, carbon dioxide (CO2) makes up approximately
98 percent of WACKER’s direct greenhouse gas emissions. The remainder is made up of
nitrous oxide, methane, fluorocarbons and other greenhouse gases. These also include
nitrogen trifluoride, which we determined groupwide for the first time in 2014. We looked
at methane emissions from combustion processes in detail in 2014, too. With the aid
of an emission factor specified by the authorities, we accounted for additional methane

88
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

emissions from our combustion processes and corrected them as far back as 2012. Over
the coming years, we will compare the emission factors with actual methane emission
measurements.
In 2013, we optimized the processes of the Burghausen site’s gas turbine during a
scheduled shutdown. Due to the facility’s extended availability in 2014 and an increase
in electricity production at the Burghausen power plant, direct carbon dioxide emissions
rose. At the Nünchritz site, we were able to save on direct carbon dioxide emissions by
optimizing the integrated production system. As a result, significantly less steam had to
be generated from primary energy sources. Overall, this brings the direct carbon dioxide
emissions in 2014 to the same level as in 2013. The rise in direct nitrous oxide (N2O)
emissions between 2012 and 2014 is due to increased production at the Portland site and
consolidated reporting at the Singapore site, which was implemented in 2014.

Air Emissions
2014

2013

2012

Direct (kt)

1,251

1,253

1,311

Indirect (kt)

1,420

1,241

1,133

CH4 methane (t)2

81

82

85

N2O nitrous oxide (t)

64

43

34

6

7

5

0.059

0.059

0.059

0.008

–

–

0.000

0.002

0.011

CO2 carbon dioxide1

Other greenhouse gases

HFC hydrofluorocarbons (t)
PFC perfluorocarbons (t)
NF3 nitrogen trifluoride (t)

3

SF6 sulfur hexafluoride (t)
1

2
3

CO2 emissions are measured as per The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol: “A Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard”), published by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for
Sustainable Development. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions. Scope 2: indirect emissions from the consumption of
purchased energy (converted into CO2 equivalents for purchased energy). In accordance with the
recommendations of the GHG Protocol, Wacker Chemie AG’s direct and indirect emissions were recalculated
retroactively due to amendments to the system boundaries, starting from the reference year (2012) for the CO 2
target. In addition to the Group’s direct CO2 emissions, sites’ intra-plant traffic emissions were also taken into
account for sustainability reporting.
Methane emissions from our combustion processes were first accounted for in 2014 using an emission factor
specified by the authorities and corrected as far back as 2012.
Nitrogen trifluoride was determined groupwide for the first time in 2014.

89
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

Greenhouse Gas Emissions
kt CO2e1

GWP
factor2

2014

2013

2012

1

1,251.08

1,252.58

1,311.48

25

2.03

2.05

2.13

298

19.00

12.81

10.07

HFC hydrofluorocarbons

1,430

8.54

10.01

7.44

PFC perfluorocarbons

9,800

0.58

0.58

0.58

17,200

0.14

–

–

22,800

0.00

0.05

0.26

CO2 carbon dioxide3
CH4 methane

4

N2O nitrous oxide

NF3 nitrogen trifluoride

5

SF6 sulfur hexafluoride
1
2

3
4
5

CO2e = CO2 equivalents, as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1 (direct emissions).
The GWP factor (Global Warming Potential) is a measure of how much a gas contributes to the greenhouse
effect compared with CO2. Example: the GWP factor for methane over 100 years is 25 (according to IPCC Fourth
Assessment Report 2007). This means that emissions from 1 kg of methane are 25 times more harmful than
from 1 kg of carbon dioxide.
In addition to the Group’s direct CO2 emissions, sites’ intra-plant traffic emissions were also taken into account
for sustainability reporting.
Methane emissions from our combustion processes were first accounted for in 2014 using an emission factor
specified by the authorities and corrected as far back as 2012.
Nitrogen trifluoride was recorded groupwide for the first time in 2014.

Emission of Air Pollutants
We made considerable progress in the emission of nitrogen oxides in 2013 and 2014 by
optimizing the integrated heat-utilization system at the Burghausen site. Despite increased
electricity generation and extended availability of the Burghausen gas turbine in 2014,
direct nitrogen oxide emissions fell by 12 percent compared to 2012. We used
measurements and calculations at Burghausen to show that exposure to NOx/NH3
emissions in the site’s surroundings, on average, is in line with typical background
concentrations. Overall nitrogen deposition is within the limits for maximum background
levels in rural areas.
In the evaluation of total emissions of non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs),
we amended our assessment methodology in 2014. This was triggered by the construction
of a new WACKER POLYMERS dispersible polymer powder plant in Burghausen. We have
retroactively corrected the emissions data from our spray dryers in Burghausen, Calvert
City and Nanjing in accordance with the new method. The 2014 rise in values is due to
production increases.

90
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

The Air Is Cleaner
Since WACKER acquired the Norwegian
site in Holla in 2010, continuous
expansion of environmental protection
has been on the agenda for the energyintensive silicon-metal production there.
The team has now optimized the
maintenance of equipment that removes
dust from silicon metal production.
These measures have significantly
reduced emissions.
At the Holla site, the coordination
between mechanical and electrical
servicing of separation equipment and
the accompanying systematic equipment There from the start – when the silicon-metal site in
Holla, Norway, was integrated into the WACKER Group
maintenance has been completely
in 2010: (from left to right) Einar Olav Schei, Torbjørn
revised. The result is enhanced and
Halland and Silje Lian Gridsvåg.
reliable maintenance of dust removal. At
the same time, the equipment availability
has been increased beyond what is required.
The measures have led to significantly reduced emissions. At a production capacity of
82,844 metric tons, 560 metric tons of dust were emitted in 2013. In 2014, at an increased
production capacity of 84,580 metric tons, the dust emissions were down to 384 metric
tons.

91
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

Air Pollutant Emissions
t

2014

2013

2012

1,960

2,010

2,225

NMVOC non-methane volatile
organic compounds (t)

830

750

720

CO carbon monoxide (t)3

347

346

351

408

588

591

349

499

500

1

NOx nitrogen oxides (t)
2

Dust (t)

4

Particulate matter (t)
1
2

3
4

5

5

Corrected NOx emissions for 2013 for the Holla site, since exact figures did not become available until later.
The method for calculating the total volume of non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) emitted by
our production facilities was amended in 2014. We harmonized the data analysis, took additional substances into
account and adjusted the prior-year figures on the basis of the new methodology. The rise from 2013 to 2014
was due to production increases.
Groupwide CO2 emissions were corrected based on the more precise data records for 2012.
Here, dust refers to total dust. Total dust is suspended dust, which is considered to include all solid and liquid
particles in outside air that do not sink to the ground immediately, but rather remain in the atmosphere for a
certain period of time. Groupwide dust emissions were corrected based on the more precise data records for
2012.
Here, particulate matter refers to PM10 (particulate matter 10 µm, e.g. particulates that pass through a sizeselective air inlet of 10 µm in aerodynamic diameter). Particulate matter is a subset of dust (total dust).
Groupwide particulate matter emissions were corrected based on the more precise data records for 2012.

Indirect Emissions
Our indirect CO2 emissions from procured energy (as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope
2) rose to 1,420,000 metric tons in 2014 (2013: 1,241,000 metric tons). This was due to
increased production volumes, particularly of polysilicon at the Burghausen and Nünchritz
sites. We used energy-efficiency measures to reduce weighted specific energy
consumption and the associated specific CO2 emissions – while maintaining a comparable
product portfolio.
The rise in Scope 2 emissions in 2013 was caused not only by increased production
capacity for polysilicon at the Nünchritz site, but also by a shift from Scope 1 to Scope
2 emissions due to the planned shutdown of a gas turbine at the Burghausen site. Onefourth of the increase is caused by the annual update of regional emission factors used in
calculating greenhouse gas emissions.
Sustainable Mobility Strategy
When it comes to climate protection, production is not the only factor – our employees’
carbon footprint is also significant. We encourage them to leave their cars at home. We
provide commuter buses for shift workers at Burghausen, our largest site. Together with
nine bus companies, we have set up some 56 bus routes within a 50-km radius. Some
3,500 people use our shuttle service every day. 5,000 of our Burghausen employees have
annual tickets.
At our Burghausen site, we maintain a fleet of around 6,000 bicycles and offer our
employees charging facilities for their e-bikes. Our Nünchritz site has a fleet of 950
bicycles.

92
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Air

Since 2011, our company car fleet in Germany has only included models that meet a
minimum rating of “good” according to the safety and environmental assessment criteria
issued by the German Automobile Association (ADAC). We have tightened the CO2
emissions limits for our company cars to a maximum of 110 to 175 g/km. Our fleet
average is 139 g/km. At an annual average of 30,000 km traveled per car, we lowered CO2
emissions by almost 8 percent in the period under review, relative to 2012. We replaced all
the older models by 2014 and thus reduced the vehicle fleet’s annual CO2 emissions by
more than 16 percent compared with 2010.
WACKER offers frequent travelers and employees who use company cars the opportunity
of participating in safety and eco training. WACKER organizes safety weeks at its sites at
regular intervals; sustainable mobility topics are covered there. We are looking at incentive
systems that will motivate managerial employees even more to switch to environmentally
friendly vehicles with alternative drives.
We encourage our employees to take the train when traveling between the Burghausen
site and Munich headquarters. And we have negotiated a special ticket for this regular
route with SüdOstBayernBahn, which includes public transport (e.g. the subway to the
headquarters). An additional appeal of the special corporate ticket is a bonus card for
frequent travelers, which we tested as a pilot project in the period under review. WACKER
also provides employees with German Rail “Bahncards.”
In Burghausen, a shuttle bus picks up employees arriving from Munich at the train station
and transports them to various destinations on site. Since 2012, a zero-emission shuttle
bus for visitors has been used on the site. Electric vehicles have been part of our pool fleet
since 2013. When we choose contracting companies for passenger transport, we ask what
type of vehicles the bidders use and assess their safety and environmental impact.
During the period under review, we tested hydrogen-powered vehicles, but decided that
electric vehicles are more suitable for us. The electric drive does not generate exhaust
gases, is quiet and has low operating and maintenance costs, as it requires less servicing.
A hydrogen-driven industrial truck currently costs 300 percent more than an electric
vehicle. Added to this would be high costs for the necessary infrastructure measures.
We also use electric drives for forklift trucks and the like. Over two thirds of the materialshandling equipment (lifting trucks, stackers and towing vehicles) at our Burghausen and
Nünchritz sites now have electric motors. Groupwide, the switchover to energy-saving
electric motors now covers other equipment, such as pumps and compressors.
In China, we offer shuttle buses from residential areas to our sites in Nanjing, Shanghai
and Zhangjiagang. Siltronic’s US site at Portland (Oregon) provides incentives – such
as subsidized public transportation – to encourage employees to commute in an
environmentally aware fashion. In Singapore, Siltronic has arranged for shuttle buses to
travel from the site to various parts of the city. Employees at Siltronic in Japan have two
days a month when, rather than driving their own car, they walk, bike, car-share or use
public transport to get to work.

93
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Water

Water
Water is an extremely precious resource – not only as drinking water, but also as a raw
material, solvent and coolant in many technical and chemical processes. At WACKER, we
use water sparingly and protect natural water resources. We always purify our wastewater
as effectively as possible and recycle the water through loops in our production. We make
sure that this multiple use does not increase energy consumption or otherwise negatively
impact the environment.
Water Consumption Tested Using the Global Water Tool©
In many parts of the world, clean water is particularly scarce, and obtaining and purifying
water is very expensive. As a globally-active company, we take such conditions into
account in our production processes and during transport. We use the Global Water Tool©
(GWT) developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
to analyze the annual relative water stress index of the countries in which our main global
production sites are located.
This analysis was conducted for the first time in 2012, based on analyses using the
water stress index developed by the Water Systems Analysis Group of the University of
New Hampshire, USA. This index provides information on the relationship between water
consumption and the availability of renewable fresh water. The outcome of the analysis is
that our most important production sites are located in regions with a low relative water
stress index. These regions account for more than 97 percent of our annual water use and
over 90 percent of our production volume. Production sites in countries for which no GWTbased water stress index information is available account for less than 0.5 percent of our
water consumption.
“Save Wastewater and Make a Profit” was the title of a special Employee Suggestion
Program initiative launched in December 2014 at the Nünchritz site. The purpose of the
initiative is to encourage employees to develop ideas for conserving and recycling water
in production. The campaign ran until June 30, 2015 and is currently being evaluated. In
2014, a similar campaign took place at the Burghausen site, where employees submitted
72 improvement suggestions, e.g. for wastewater treatment.
The process water used at Nünchritz comes from on-site wells (2014: 4,230,971 m3;
2013: 4,123,612 m3). Drinking water accounts for less than 1 percent of our total water
consumption at this site. In 2014, we reduced the water consumption at Nünchritz with the
help of a project that forms part of our WOS (Wacker Operating System) program. We now
use the water we need for waste-gas purification at the incinerator twice, allowing us to
considerably reduce the amount of wastewater.
The town of Freiberg is connected to a highly branched, man-made water ditch system.
Our Siltronic site there uses surface water, which is carried to the site by such a ditch, to
cool the crystal pulling facilities. We also purify the surface water into hyperpure water for
wafer production.
By modifying production processes and re-using materials, the Siltronic division has
reduced its use of chemicals, e.g. in wafer cleaning tanks. We reuse water several times
over, wherever the purity requirements for wafer manufacturing permit. This has allowed us
to reduce specific consumption of demineralized (deionized) water by around 35 percent

94
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Water

in Burghausen since 2005 and also around 35 percent in Portland since 1996 without
compromising on quality. We monitor the use of ultrapure water in wafer production, where
Siltronic achieves a water-recycling rate of up to 45 percent.
Lower exterior temperatures and plant-capacity utilization in 2013 resulted in reduced
cooling-water use at Burghausen. In 2014, cooling-water use returned to the 2012 level,
due to production increases at a Burghausen facility.
Groupwide, organic emissions to wastewater – specified as chemical oxygen demand
(COD) – fell in 2014. We closed the Burghausen acetaldehyde plant in late 2012; this has
significantly lowered the COD and emissions of halogenated organic compounds (AOX)
to water. At the Nünchritz site, we implemented optimization measures for wastewater
treatment in 2014, which reduced the COD load.
In 2014, WACKER POLYMERS’ VAE (vinyl acetate-ethylene dispersions) plant in
Burghausen lowered its specific wastewater load by 5 percent by implementing new
flushing options for filtration systems. This is equivalent to a COD-load reduction of some
126 metric tons and an AOX-load reduction of 10.2 metric tons. WACKER SILICONES
started up a plant for decentrally pretreating wastewater in Burghausen in 2014. This
plant uses the Fentox® process to remove highly diluted silicone constituents from the
wastewater generated in the production of silicone emulsions.

Water Consumption / Emissions to Water

Water consumption (1,000 m3)
3

Cooling water volume (1,000 m )

2014

2013

2012

241,973

220,908

242,072

223,647

197,681

225,391

3

21,140

18,995

19,569

COD (chemical oxygen demand) (t)

Wastewater volume (1,000 m )

1,230

1,320

1,460

AOx (adsorbable organic halides) (t)

2

2

3

1.3

1.1

1.2

533

451

414

7.8

6.0

7.0

Heavy metals (t)
Nitrogen (t)

1

Phosphorus (t)
1

The value for NOx emissions for 2012 has been corrected, since exact figures for the Cologne site did not
become available until later.

95
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Water

Fewer Emissions to Water
At our Burghausen site, we have
significantly reduced the amount of
harmful emissions to the Salzach river
over the past five years. In 2012, we our
acetaldehyde and acetic acid production
plant. The shutdown reduced organic
pollution (COD, chemical oxygen
demand) in the multistage biological
wastewater treatment plant by
30 percent. The site’s wastewater
volumes remained unchanged. In 2013,
we switched the biological wastewater
treatment plant’s first bio-stage from
double-tank to single-tank mode on a
trial basis. We made this successful
mode of operation permanent in 2014.
Furthermore, in spring 2013, we put an
intermediary wastewater storage tank
into operation. We use it to collect peak
pollutant loads from specific facilities so
that they can be fed into the biological
wastewater treatment system in a
Organically polluted wastewater is purified in the first
controlled manner during phases of low
bio-stage of the wastewater treatment system at the
influent from production. This makes the Burghausen site.
supply more consistent and leads to
more stable operation of the biological
wastewater treatment plant. Compared to 2010, emissions of organic pollutants to the
Salzach river have decreased by 39 percent.
Since the acetaldehyde plant’s shutdown, emissions of halogenated hydrocarbons (AOX)
have fallen by 66 percent relative to 2010. The consistently low mass flows of readily
degradable organic substances (BOD5, biological oxygen demand) o the past two years
are the result of stable operation have decreased by 16 percent since 2010.
Thanks to these measures, we are also preventing sludge (biomass from the biological
wastewater treatment plant) from overflowing into the Salzach river. Furthermore, several
facilities were able to reduce their emissions of the heavy metals, iron, copper and zinc to
the Salzach by around 50 percent.

96
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Soil and Groundwater

Soil and Groundwater
Like many other long-standing chemical companies, WACKER has some soil
contamination on its site premises. In the pioneering days of chemical production, nobody
was aware of the dangers posed by certain chemicals, or that some substances could
remain in the ground for prolonged periods without undergoing degradation.
To remediate this legacy of contamination, WACKER has been extracting air from the soil
at the Burghausen site since 1989. This predominantly removes highly volatile halogenated
hydrocarbons from the soil, which are then incinerated to render them harmless. By the end
of 2014, we had removed a total of 1,995 metric tons of chlorinated hydrocarbons (CHCs);
the amount of contaminants removed in 2014 was 22 metric tons.
Since 2003, we have been using a groundwater stripping plant to treat an area of localized
groundwater contamination east of the Burghausen site. By the end of 2014, 29 metric
tons of CHCs had been removed; pollutant concentrations have been reduced to one tenth
of their original levels. In order to reduce the discharge of hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD)
into the tailrace, we are continuing groundwater treatment of the site’s contaminated areas.
Currently, 86 kilograms of the pollutants are being removed per year. The results of our fish
contaminant survey at Burghausen indicate that fish from the Salzach river are quite safe
to eat.
Additionally, there is some groundwater contamination at our Nünchritz site. This predates
WACKER’s takeover of the site. We have been cleaning up the groundwater there since
2009 and have been using a hydraulic process since 2013. In 2012 and 2013, we cleaned
some 110,000 cubic meters of groundwater there. The project was a temporary measure
that ended on schedule in 2013. We are now analyzing the results and will commence
further remediation measures from 2018 on.
Siltronic’s Portland site in Oregon, USA, has developed a method of biodegrading
trichloroethylene (TCE) residues in groundwater by means of microorganisms. With this
method, which has been approved by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
(ODEQ), we almost completely eliminate trichloroethylene from groundwater and thus
achieve drinking water quality. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
recognized our biological method of degrading chlorinated volatile organic compounds
(CVOCs) with which we eliminate 90+ percent of these substances.

97
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Waste

Waste
Recycled Waste

In integrated production, we minimize waste by feeding byproducts back into the
production loop. WACKER endeavors to avoid waste throughout a product’s entire life
cycle. Groupwide, we record the volume of waste we generate according to the criteria “to
be recycled” and “to be disposed of,” as well as “hazardous” and “non-hazardous.”
Due to higher production volumes, our waste has increased by 10 percent in the period
under review. Additional capacity utilization at the Nünchritz site resulted in more filter
and sewage sludge. Expansion measures there led to increased disposal of construction
waste in 2013. In Burghausen, we recovered more energy from chlorosilane by residue
incineration; we provided the cement industry with the resulting silica for further use. The
causes for the waste increase in 2014 are consolidated reporting for the Singapore site
and the Calvert City site expansion, where large amounts of construction waste were
generated, too.

Waste
t

2014

2013

2012

158,200

142,060

136,800

49,260

31,560

39,920

108,940

110,500

96,880

Hazardous

75,630

73,380

73,620

Non-hazardous

82,570

68,680

63,180

Total
Of which
Disposed of
Recycled
Or

98
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Waste

Waste-Reduction Projects
During the 2013/2014 reporting period, we also reduced waste with the help of projects
that form part of our WOS (Wacker Operating System) program. One example is the
recycling of acetic acid at WACKER POLYMERS. We operate a thin-film evaporator in
Burghausen to recover acetic acid from the liquid residues of the VAM (vinyl acetate
monomer) plant for complete recycling in the VAM process. This has enabled us to reduce
the VAM plant’s solvent waste by approximately 15 percent.
We maintain a chemicals-exchange database. Burghausen site employees can use it
to identify surplus substances, either in opened packaging drums, or in their original
container. The database is a practical way to coordinate the recycling of surplus materials.
At Siltronic in Portland, we have developed a recycling process for cutting slurry, which the
Siltronic production sites in Burghausen, Freiberg and Singapore use, too. Cutting slurry
is added in the wire-sawing of wafers in order to ensure clean processing. It consists of a
cutting fluid and silicon carbide as the cutting material. For recycling purposes, we collect
used cutting slurry for external recovery companies that separate liquid and solids. The
recycling companies recover 85 to 100 percent of our cutting fluid, which is then used in
Siltronic production again. The recycling rate for silicon carbide is 75 percent. Any solids
that Siltronic cannot use find application as blast furnace aggregates in steel smelting, for
example.
Packaging and Transport
WACKER is keen to minimize the environmental impact of its packaging materials. For
instance, the Siltronic division prefers reusable packaging such as the Hybox. We ship
our 300 mm wafers in this type of reusable container, which is designed for transportation
in hygienically sensitive areas. The Hybox has 30 percent less volume than cardboard
packaging. Since the introduction of the Hybox in 2006, we have shipped 64,000 of them
from the Burghausen and Freiberg sites. Thanks to this reusable design, we avoided a total
of around 2,300 metric tons of waste from 2006 to 2014.
The Hybox protects 300 mm wafers during
shipment. Thanks to the reusable system, 610
metric tons of packaging material were saved in
2014 alone (439 metric tons in 2013).

99
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Waste

Proper Disposal of Neighbors’ Hazardous Waste
WACKER held its 17th “Household
Hazardous Waste Day” for neighbors of
its Adrian site in Michigan (USA) in 2014.
On this day, neighbors from Lenawee
county can bring in any chemical
household products that are not allowed
in trash cans, like (latex) paints,
flammable liquids, waste oil, antifreeze,
insect repellents, spray cans, alkaline
and mercury batteries, fluorescent tubes
and incandescent lamps. Held since
Adrian site employees regularly invite their neighbors to
1997, this campaign run by employee
bring in their hazardous waste for recycling.
volunteers has resulted in the collection
and proper disposal of some 166 metric
tons of hazardous waste at Adrian.

100
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue and Awards

Dialogue and Awards
Our sites regularly inform the public about our environmental-protection activities,
including annual community meetings at Nünchritz (Germany), as well as similar events
with neighbors or “open houses” at Adrian (Michigan, USA) and Zhangjiagang in China. Our
Burghausen, Freiberg and Nünchritz sites publish annual environmental reports (available
in German only) containing environmental-protection and safety-related facts and figures.
WACKER Greater China published a report (available in Chinese only) on its sustainability
work in 2013/2014.
Environmental Report Burghausen 2013
Environmental Report Freiberg 2013
Environmental Report Nünchritz 2013
Environmental Report Nünchritz 2014
WACKER Greater China Sustainability Work
WACKER has been a member of the Bavarian Environmental Pact since it was founded
in 1995. From 2010 to 2015, this Pact has been operating under the slogan “Sustainable
growth balanced by environmental and climate protection.” The Environmental Pact is
an agreement between the Bavarian government and Bavarian industry, in which both
parties have declared their belief that natural resources can be better protected through
voluntary, responsible cooperation between industry and state rather than by laws and
regulations alone. The Pact serves as a catalyst to promote climate protection and energy
conservation, sustainable mobility, environmental engineering and resource efficiency. Its
primary aims are to strengthen companies’ individual responsibility and avoid
environmental pollution.
Environmental Awards
Environmental protection is a core component of all processes at WACKER. Our
commitment is reflected in the awards we’ve received from authorities and organizations
as well as customers.

101
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue and Awards

Environmental Awards 2013
Award

Recipient

Sponsor

Wildlife at WorkSM Certificate
Recertification 2013

Wacker Chemical Corp.

The Wildlife Habitat Council

Responsible Care® Chairman’s
Award 2013

WACKER Greater China

Association of International
Chemical Manufacturers

Responsible Care® Award 2013 WACKER Greater China

China Petroleum Chemical
Industry Federation

Award for environmental
protection and safety at the
Nanjing site 2013

WACKER Greater China

Nanjing Chemical Industry
Park

Clean Production Company
2013

WACKER Greater China

Zhangjiagang Environmental
Protection Bureau

EHS Award 2013

WACKER Korea

South Korean Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Energy

Pollution Control Award 2013

Siltronic Corporation

Environmental Services City
of Portland

Award

Recipient

Sponsor

2014 Bavarian Energy Award

Wacker Chemie AG

Bavarian government

Best Supplier Sustainability
2014

Wacker Chemie AG

Avery Dennison

Responsible Care®
Performance Award 2014

Wacker Chemical Corp.

American Chemistry Council

Energy Saving and Emission
Reduction Award 2014

WACKER Greater China

China Petroleum Chemical
Industry Federation

Responsible Care® Best
Facilitator Award 2014

WACKER Greater China

China Petroleum Chemical
Industry Federation

EHS Award 2014

WACKER Korea

Korea International Trade
Association

Environmental Awards 2014

102
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Dialogue and Awards

Sustainable Cooperation
WACKER’s customer Avery Dennison
uses silicone products as release
agents, e.g. for labels with industrial and
medical applications. Two examples of
applications are labels for packaging and
high-quality medical adhesive plasters.
WACKER received the “Avery Dennison
Best Supplier Sustainability Award 2014”
for a joint project with Munksjö on
reducing the use of platinum in
formulations of the DEHESIVE® silicone
product range. The award ceremony was
held in Oegstgeest in the Netherlands,
where the customer has its European
headquarters.

Excellent collaboration: (from left to right) Pascal Braker
(Avery Dennison, commodity leader for chemicals,
Europe), Angelo Depietri (Avery Dennison, vice
president of the materials group, Europe), WACKER
Executive Board member Auguste Willems, Sjaak
Elmendorp (Avery Dennison, vice president for
innovations), Laurent Morineaux (head of the Care &
Coatings business team for EMEA) and Arjan de Rek
(global key account manager at Performance Silicones).

103
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Nature Conservation and Biodiversity

Nature Conservation and Biodiversity
Our environmental-protection efforts to conserve resources and reinstate habitat help
maintain the balance of species. Burghausen’s Site Planning unit develops strategies for
limiting land use.
We carefully assess the impact that site expansions may have on nature and biodiversity
and – in consultation with the authorities – implement environmental mitigation programs
to offset these impacts. Take the expansion of our polysilicon production facilities at
Burghausen and Nünchritz, for example. We replaced every tree felled during construction
of the new polysilicon production facility on the 1.3-km2 Nünchritz site with a native
species. In the Seusslitzer Grund Nature Reserve, a five-hectare area has been reforested
with oak, beech and linden trees.
Covering 232 hectares (about the same size as Munich’s historic downtown district), our
Burghausen site borders a Natura 2000 nature reserve alongside the Salzach river. To
check whether the operation of our facilities has any effect on this reserve, we regularly
monitor our air pollution levels. In this regard, we had an external consultant compile
an environmental-exposure register for the site. The results show that emissions into the
atmosphere at the site do not significantly impact the nature reserve.
A group of employees at our US site in Adrian (Michigan) has set up nesting boxes for
various species of bird and maintains a 2.4-km nature trail. The 97-hectare site premises
also feature wildflower and butterfly gardens. An almost 81-hectare outdoor area has been
certified for the conservation of wildlife. The employees are dedicated to nature and wildlife
conservation and concentrate on themed groups – including insects and bats. For its
dedication, the Adrian team was once again awarded the US Wildlife Habitat Council’s
Wildlife at WorkSM certificate in the period under review.

104
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Nature Conservation and Biodiversity

Natural Habitat by the Creek in Charleston
We have created three wetland mitigation areas at our new US site in Charleston,
Tennessee, and re-naturalized an existing stream. We planted approximately 800 trees
along a 490-meter stretch of the South Mouse Creek bank and stabilized the stream bank
by planting a further 1,320 new trees adjacent to it. The diverse range of newly planted
trees includes American witch hazel, river birch, sycamore, eastern redbud, black cherry,
black walnut and tulip trees, which are all native to Tennessee. With this project, we have
helped to maintain the natural habitat on the stream bank and filter the water naturally.

Hugh Flack (left), Bryan Alexander and
Sharon Nicholson are dedicated members
of the Wildlife Habitat team that looks after
the flora and fauna at the US site in Adrian.

The re-naturalization work along the South
Mouse Creek offers numerous animal and
plant species a natural habitat at the
Charleston site.

105
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Logistics and Transport
We constantly strive to improve our processes in order to optimize logistics chains and
minimize shipment journeys or avoid unnecessary ones. Our Logistics department uses
a simulation system to help us analyze the flow of goods. We can use this system to
calculate carbon dioxide emissions and determine the potential for optimizing transport
routes and vehicle capacity utilization. We use electronic systems to organize in-plant
transportation such that routes are short and wasted empty space is avoided. As well as
checking carbon dioxide levels, we monitor noise emissions from the vehicles we use for
our shipments.
To monitor our journeys, we also follow the “guidelines for determining the carbon dioxide
emissions associated with logistics operations” (German language only) issued by the
German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). Wherever possible, we are switching from
road to rail transport. Today, the majority of the freight containers leaving our German
sites are transported by rail to North Sea ports, in particular. Since 1999, WACKER’s
600-meter long container train has traveled every day from Burghausen to the ports in
Bremerhaven and Hamburg. In Burghausen, we now transport more than 95 percent of
container shipments by rail, which means that almost 12,000 freight containers a year no
longer travel to ports by road. Our container trains between Burghausen/Nünchritz and
the ports of Bremerhaven and Hamburg replace around 25,000 road journeys a year. This
saves around 2,100 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually.
At its production sites, WACKER processes raw materials from all over the world. We have
developed a strategy for our supply chains that allows us to coordinate capacities for rawmaterial deliveries and exports, and to avoid empty space in containers. In addition, in our
collaboration with shipping companies, our tendering for overseas imports and exports run
in parallel. This allows us to assign containers for our raw-material deliveries that belong
to the same shipping company portfolio that we use for exports. The raw materials enter
our train system in Hamburg; after the journey, the containers are unloaded at our sites and
then loaded again directly for export. Transport of intermediates between our sites follows
the same concept.
Burghausen Logistics Hub
Shipping volumes increased in the period under review. As the Group’s largest logistics
hub, Burghausen has increased its shipping volume by about 2 percent to around 762,000
metric tons (2013: 750,000 metric tons). There was a slight rise in the number of both truck
loads and overseas containers – up to 40,700 and 12,500, respectively.

106
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Transport Volumes for the Burghausen Logistics Hub

Most of the freight containers leaving our German sites reach northern ports via rail. From
our Nünchritz site, some 5,800 containers are transported to German seaports by rail and
inland waterways from Riesa every year. When we procure raw materials, they are primarily
transported by rail, too. Over shorter distances, however, truck transport is still more costeffective and thus indispensable.

Climate-Neutral Transport
With the GoGreen certificate, our
logistics service provider Deutsche Post
DHL certifies the offsetting of
greenhouse gas emissions generated by
the transport of our parcels. The
greenhouse gas emissions specified on
the certificate of 3.18 metric tons CO2e
in 2014 include emissions from transport
and logistics, as well as upstream
emissions from fuel and energy
generation (2013: 2.76 t CO2e). CO2
equivalents (CO2e) include carbon
dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse
gases, such as methane (CH4) and
nitrous oxide (N2O).

Deutsche Post DHL certified WACKER with its GoGreen
certificate in 2013 and 2014.

Deutsche Post DHL’s carbon
management is offsetting the greenhouse gas emissions generated during transport in the
period under review through investments in global climate-protection projects. The SGS
(Société Générale de Surveillance) has verified the calculated greenhouse gas emissions
and their compensation in accordance with carbon management systems and the
“Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting Standard.”

107
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Reducing Shipment Routes
In integrated production, we transport products and byproducts from one plant to
neighboring facilities by pipeline. For large quantities, the transport of products by pipeline
is cost-effective, safe and emission-free. Ethylene, one of our most important raw
materials, is piped to our Burghausen site from the adjacent OMV Deutschland site.
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS’ transfer of its CGTase production from Burghausen to the US
Eddyville site in 2012 contributed to savings in transport emissions (Scope 2) during the
reporting period. CGTase (cyclodextrin glycosyl transferase) is an enzyme used in the
manufacture of cyclodextrins, such as our CAVAMAX® and CAVASOL® products. CGTase
now no longer needs to travel from Europe to Asia in a container ship, but can be
processed directly into cyclodextrins in Eddyville.
Our Nünchritz plant obtains cartridges for silicones from a packaging manufacturer in
nearby Grossenhain. Burghausen procures reusable IBCs (intermediate bulk containers),
drums and pallets from regional suppliers. We have replaced 220-liter drums for shipping
silicone fluids and emulsions with 1,000-liter IBCs. WACKER fills over 130,000 of these
containers annually, and then sends them to a service provider a short distance away,
where they are recycled.
Short distances to service providers and maximum avoidance of empty space in the
containers help to minimize emissions and waste. We are implementing similar measures
at our sites in China, Japan and the USA. As an alternative to tank containers and IBCs,
we also use flexitanks to transport liquids to Brazil, China, India and the Middle East,
for example. WACKER mounts the flexitanks in containers in such a way that, once the
flexitank has been emptied, the container can be used for another cargo straight away,
without having to be cleaned first.
Piston tanks are an environmentally sound alternative to transport drums for viscous
products such as our silicone sealants. A moving internal piston pushes 25 metric tons of
silicone sealant – equivalent to 125 steel drums – into the tank semitrailer during loading.
Customers can connect the tank directly to their filling equipment and the piston pushes
the product out of the tank. Several thousand metric tons of silicone sealant currently leave
our Burghausen site in this way. WACKER’s sites outside Germany, too, procure mainly
from regional suppliers to shorten transport distances.
We exchange electronic data with our shipping agents so that they can plan their trips
as efficiently as possible and ensure their vehicles are always fully loaded. Plus, we
launched a strategy back in 1996 to help avoid empty runs by focusing on regional
shipping agents. It enables the agents responsible for a particular postal code area to plan
return journeys in their region so that trucks are almost never partially laden. Our annual
assessment of shipping agents extends to their environmental performance. For example,
we ask how their vehicles are rated in European emission standards (such as the Euro 5
exhaust emission standard). The number of Euro 5 compliant vehicles used by our logistics
providers has increased from just under 8 percent in 2006 to over 83 percent in 2014.

108
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Expanded Transportation Infrastructure at Our Sites
For the construction of the new polysilicon facility at Charleston (Tennessee, USA), project
logistics already take account of operational requirements. The infrastructure that was
put in place will be used during plant start-up, and for subsequent supply and wastedisposal operations. In 2014, polysilicon expansion continued at the Charleston site.
Project logistics are playing a central role in ensuring that plant components arrive for
assembly at the right place and right time. In parallel to this, the logistical processes for
start-up and production are being developed.
At the Zhangjiagang site, we are constructing a new logistical storage and distribution
center to handle the ever-growing volumes of incoming and outgoing raw materials and
finished products even more efficiently. Completion of this project at the Chinese site is
scheduled for fall 2015.
Operations at the new public combined road and rail terminal in Burghausen commenced
in the fall of 2014. In addition to expediting container traffic for exports, we are working with
the operator to shift more freight from road to rail using the new terminal. The combined
road and rail terminal has been linked to the site via the new North Gate for trucks, which
will make shipments into and out of the Burghausen site quicker and easier.

A hand-in-hand success: on January 19,
2015, the combined road and rail terminal
was inaugurated in Burghausen.

Key representatives from companies and
authorities gave the start signal together.

109
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Ethylene Pipeline South Started Operation
The Ethylene Pipeline South (EPS; German-language website only) was started up in 2013.
It enables the safe and economical transport of ethylene between major southern German
chemical sites and up to Rotterdam (Netherlands). Construction began in 2007. For the
EPS, a 370-km long pipeline runs west from Münchsmünster in Bavaria across BadenWürttemberg to Ludwigshafen in Rhineland-Palatinate. The pipeline enables ethylene to
be transported without emissions and at very low energy costs. Once the construction
work has been completed, the EPS will be virtually invisible and will have no adverse
effect on the landscape. Pipelines were not laid in protected areas where drinking water
is abstracted or mineral springs are located, and were only installed in significant water
management areas if special safety precautions were put in place.
A ceremony in Munich in July 2013 marked the
official opening of the EPS (Ethylene Pipeline
South).

110
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport

Expansion of Transport Routes to ChemDelta Bavaria
In the ChemDelta Bavaria area, one of the major infrastructure projects is the electrification
of the rail route to Munich and its expansion to two tracks. This project is making good
progress. Previously, the rail line to Burghausen had been in the same condition as in 1897,
with the exception of a few enhancements over recent years. One bottleneck is the section
between Altmühldorf and Tüßling, where three rail lines meet; around 1 percent of German
freight traffic passes over these tracks. Construction has already started at this bottleneck;
it is scheduled to be removed by 2017.
Expansion of the A 94 Munich to Passau autobahn – supported by the ChemDelta Bavaria
association of companies – is progressing. The call for bids as part of a PPP (public-private
partnership) project – which is securing the funding for the stretches from Pastetten to
Dorfen and Dorfen to Heldenstein – is expected to result in the awarding of the contract in
2015. This means that a continuous autobahn from Munich to Marktl can become a reality
by 2018/2019 at the earliest. Completion of the A 94 would not only improve the transport
infrastructure of ChemDelta Bavaria, but also relieve congestion in villages and towns along
the B12 highway and thus reduce the risk of accidents on this stretch of road. We actively
support the “Ja zur A 94 e.V.” (Yes to A 94; German-language website only) association.
We are involved in the “Magistrale für Europa” (Major Rail Route for Europe) initiative,
which has been committed to the expansion of the rail connection between Paris and
Budapest under the slogan “from patchwork to network” for the past 20 years. The Munich
– Mühldorf – Freilassing section is on this route.

111
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Products
114 Product Safety		
119 Product Stewardship

WACKER takes environmental, health and safety
criteria into account at every stage of the
product life cycle. Every research and
development project examines the sustainability
aspects of our new products and processes.
WACKER’s policy is to provide high-quality
products that can be manufactured, transported,
used and disposed of safely, with minimal
environmental impact.

Product Safety

Product Safety
WACKER provides information on the safe use of its products and is continually working
to prevent or reduce the use of product ingredients that are harmful to human health or the
environment. We pursue this aim in a number of ways:
We try to replace harmful ingredients with alternative substances.
In the absence of an alternative, we restrict the sale of products containing harmful
substances to commercial and industrial customers wherever possible.
We develop innovative alternatives to conventional products containing harmful
substances.
As a guide for our product developers, we maintain a list of about 550 substances
that WACKER products may no longer contain. In addition to prohibited and restricted
chemicals (such as materials listed in REACH Appendices XIV and XVII), these also
include substances that are the subject of heated public debate or undesired by individual
companies. We avoid substances that are on the European Chemicals Agency’s List of
Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC).
Product Information
WACKER ensures that, if used correctly, no risk to health or the environment is posed by
any of its products. We continually update our product information and constantly revise
our risk assessments – which relate, for example, to safety aspects and environmental
impacts – to promptly take account of new findings. When there are new findings that have
to be included in the substance safety report to comply with REACH requirements, we
adapt our risk assessments accordingly.
When advertising our products and services, we make sure that our brochures, for
example, contain verifiable data and precise, legally-compliant terminology and wording
that reflect current scientific knowledge. The following are a few examples of how our
advertising provides product sustainability information:
We provide an information sheet for dispersions in which we outline our position on
biostability and product safety as per EU Directive 286/2011, which went into effect
June 1, 2015.
In an additional information sheet, we describe our plant hygiene initiatives for the entire
product life cycle of our dispersions.
We present our silicone solutions for high-performance LEDs in a brochure on LED
technologies.
We also produce another brochure in which we explain how SILPURAN® Film, an
ultrathin precision silicone film, is used in medical applications.
In WWW – our corporate magazine – we report on how ELASTOSIL® silicone film helps
convert wave power into electricity.

Material Safety Data Sheets
A material safety data sheet (MSDS) is only required by law for some 40 percent of
WACKER products. We go beyond these requirements and compile these sheets for all our
sales products – not just for those classified as hazardous substances. WACKER publishes
over 75,000 material safety data sheets in up to 35 languages.

114
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Safety

WACKER publishes a wide range of information in its material safety data sheets to ensure
that substances and mixtures are handled correctly:
Designations of substances and mixtures
Potential risks
Composition and information about ingredients
First-aid measures
Fire-fighting measures
Response in the event of accidental release
Handling and storage
Restriction and monitoring of exposure; personal protective equipment
Physical and chemical properties
Stability and reactivity
Toxicological data
Environmental data
Notes on disposal
Transportation guidelines
Legislation and other information
Nanomaterials
There is no standard definition to date for the term “nanomaterial” as far as regulatory
issues are concerned, and there are no standardized specifications for the analysis
methods used for classifying nanomaterials. WACKER identifies nanomaterials on the
basis of the EU recommendation for defining these materials (2011/696/EU); this
recommendation, in turn, is based on ISO TC 229 “Nanotechnologies.”
Nanomaterials can possess innovative properties that significantly enhance products and
processes. What is true of all chemical substances applies to nanomaterials: the possible
risks of inhalation, and dermal or oral exposure to production staff and users must be
taken into account. In addition, there are deliberations about the effects on health that
can result from the uptake of particulate, fibrous or plate-like nanomaterials. (Source:
a recommendation entitled “Empfehlung für die Gefährdungsbeurteilung bei Tätigkeiten
mit Nanomaterialien am Arbeitsplatz,” which was issued jointly by the BAuA [German
Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health] and the VCI [German Chemical
Industry Association] for analyzing hazards during activities involving nanomaterials at the
workplace.)
All the nanomaterials that we produce or use have been recorded and their risks assessed.
Most of these are nanostructured – a classification that includes materials whose internal
structures are nanoscale (between 1 and 100 nanometers), but whose external dimensions
are greater than the nano-range. These nanostructured products include HDK® pyrogenic
silica, a powder that we have sold as a thickening agent, filler and flow enhancer for over
40 years. The physicochemical properties of the HDK® product group have been examined
in detail in collaboration with external scientific institutes, and extensive toxicological, ecotoxicological and epidemiological data are available.
In collaboration with the Technical University of Dresden, we validated analytical
techniques to measure nanoparticles. We investigated the potential release of
nanoparticles at our labs and, in 2010, at our HDK® production facility, finding no evidence

115
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Safety

of relevant HDK® nanoparticle release. During the period under review, we continued
exploring the issue of nanomaterials, working in national an international committees and
task forces. As part of these efforts, we pay particular attention to nano-specific regulatory
requirements (such as national nanoproduct registers and specific REACH requirements),
which we implement accordingly. We inform our customers of how our products are
classified and of issues related to regulatory compliance.
REACH
REACH legislation, which came into force in 2007, governs the registration, evaluation,
authorization and restriction of chemicals within the European Union. Comprehensive data
are gathered through REACH, which imposes high requirements on the manufacturers,
importers and users of chemical products. All substances on the European market that are
used or imported in annual quantities exceeding one metric ton must be registered and
evaluated. The scope of evaluation work is largely determined by the quantity produced or
imported and the expected risks. Particularly high-risk substances are subject to regulatory
approval. The cost of REACH compliance for WACKER comes to a total of €30 million.

WACKER Submits 171 Registration Dossiers for REACH
By late 2014, WACKER had submitted 171 registration dossiers to the European Chemicals
Agency (ECHA). For some of the phase-one and phase-two dossiers, submitted in 2010
and 2013, ECHA required additional information, which we provided in 2014. By the end of
2014, ECHA and the regulatory agencies of EU member states had identified 161 materials
of potential concern in terms of human health and environmental safety. Of these materials,
31 already require approval. WACKER has been only marginally affected to date, with only
a few purchased substances, and none of its own. As part of the EU Commission’s GHS
(Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals), all mixtures
will have been reclassified pursuant to EU-GHS (roughly 7,000 mixtures) by mid-2015. A
central register for hazardous substances has been set up at the ECHA, and we have
registered all relevant substances since 2011.
Since 2007, WACKER has been in close contact with its suppliers about their
preregistrations for REACH, their already completed registrations and those planned for
the coming years. To obtain authoritative information, we systematically ask our suppliers
about their current status and will continue with these inquiries beyond the final REACH
registration deadline in 2018.
REACH demands extensive information about the properties of chemical products – which
necessitates an increase in mandatory animal testing. WACKER makes every effort to
avoid animal testing and only performs ECHA-required tests. Whenever possible, we use
recognized alternative methods, such as in-vitro tests. We classify substances with similar
properties into groups for testing and work within REACH consortia to exchange scientific
data with other companies.

116
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Safety

European Chemicals Agency’s REACH Schedule: Deadlines for Submitting Dossiers

1

New substances > 1 metric ton / year
Phase-in substances > 1 metric ton / year
3 R50 / 53 substances: “highly toxic to aquatic organisms” and “may have long-term harmful effects in bodies of
water”
4 CMR substances: carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction
5 Phase-in substances: predominantly old substances listed on the EINECS inventory (European Inventory of
Existing Commercial Chemical Substances on the market before 1981)
2

GPS
The ICCA (International Council of Chemical Associations) has developed the Global
Product Strategy (GPS), which governs how to assess the properties of chemicals and how
to provide information on their safe use. In Europe, most GPS requirements are satisfied by
REACH and by the CLP Regulation (Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances
and Mixtures). Manufacturers are required to publish descriptions written in layman’s terms
on the safe and environmentally sound use of chemicals (Safety Summaries). By the end
of 2014, we had published 75 Safety Summaries on the ICCA chemicals website for the
substances we registered under REACH.
GHS
GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) is a United
Nations initiative for harmonizing the classification and labeling of hazardous substances.
It is up to individual countries to decide whether to adopt the system, and, if so, which
modules to accept, and when. GHS was introduced to Europe in January 2009 with the
European Regulation on the Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and
Mixtures (the CLP Regulation). More information on this regulation is available online from
the European Commission.

117
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Safety

Overview of Hazard Symbols in the EU

The GHS Regulation on the Classification and Labeling of Chemicals has already replaced the previous orange
hazard symbols for pure substances in Europe with new symbols consisting of a white diamond in a red frame.

By 2015, we will have reclassified all of our mixtures pursuant to EU GHS (7,000 mixtures).
The ECHA has set up a central classification and labeling register for hazardous
substances. We have been registering all relevant substances here since 2011.
The cost to WACKER of changing to GHS comes to around €4 million. For us, this
system switchover means that every product must be checked, reclassified and relabeled.
Within just a few years, we have to reclassify tens of thousands of substances and
mixtures, change all material safety data sheets and redesign hazardous substance labels
to accommodate the new symbols and hazard information.
Because GHS affects any employee whose work
involves hazardous substances, it impacts not
only production and laboratory workers (who
handle GHS-labeled chemicals on a daily basis),
but also safety officers (who prepare SOPs).
Furthermore, employees who label vessels,
piping and equipment have to know and
internalize the new hazard symbols.

WACKER provides its employees with online training and a wide range of informative
literature on GHS. In Germany, the online GHS training course is currently mandatory for
all employees working with chemical substances. In 2013, we set up a non-EU-specific,
English version of the online GHS training for employees, which we use at our US sites in
particular.

118
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Product Stewardship
Corporate Research & Development
WACKER’s research and development pursues three goals.

1. Firstly, we search for solutions that meet our customers’ needs and contribute to
their market success.
2. Secondly, we optimize our processes in order to be the technology leader and to
operate sustainably.
3. Thirdly, we concentrate on creating innovative products and applications for new
markets and on serving future trends, such as higher energy requirements,
urbanization, digitalization and rising affluence.
Resear
Research
ch along the Supply Chain
WACKER takes environmental, health and safety criteria into account at every stage of the
product life cycle – every research and development project examines the sustainability
aspects of our new products and processes, starting with the raw materials used. We
try to minimize raw-material consumption, while selecting materials which offer maximum
ecological benefit. Examples:
Novel silicone resins are replacing organic binders in composites, and we are avoiding
organic solvents in the manufacture of such resins.
In the VINNEX® product family, WACKER has enhanced a binder system for bioplastics.
This system now enables polymers based on renewable resources to be processed
just like standard thermoplastics. The system improves the physical properties of the
bioplastics and makes them compatible with each other. These polymer blends have
higher impact strength, higher melt strength or better flexibility than conventional
biopolymers. Blends formulated with VINNEX® can be processed into items such as
food packaging materials, disposable flatware, parts for electronic appliances and selfdegradable gardening and agricultural containers.
One of the focal points of WACKER POLYMERS’ research is polymers that enable
the formulation of low-emission downstream products, so that the latter can meet
the requirements of the most stringent ecolabels. In the interests of sustainability, we
have developed or enhanced products that are free of alkylphenol-based surfactants
(APEOs), low in volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and largely free of formaldehyde.
Examples include dispersible polymer powders using VAE (vinyl acetate-ethylene
copolymers) for cement applications as well as products based on VAE dispersions, e.g.
for coating carpets and for sealants.
Indeed, WACKER continually strives to optimize the efficiency, environmental impact,
energy consumption and costs of its processes. Here is an example: to improve the
energy balance of solar cells and lower costs, we have endeavored to make further
reductions in energy consumption in polysilicon production. WACKER POLYSILICON has
continued to optimize the processes in its closed production loop, enabling us to once
again lower energy consumption during deposition and conversion. Using advanced,
patented technology and process optimizations, we succeeded in lowering our specific
energy consumption for polysilicon production by 29 percent between 2005 and 2013. For
this achievement, Wacker Chemie AG received the Bavarian government’s 2014 Energy
Award.

119
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Envir
Environmental
onmental Assessments
Our products are generally supplied to business customers for further processing – not
directly to end customers. Our life cycle assessments (LCAs) look at the environmental
impact caused by a specific product family throughout its life cycle – a “cradle-to-gate”
assessment extending from manufacturing to the factory gate. These analyses allow us to
gage the sustainability of our products and production processes, and to improve them
accordingly.
In the reporting period, WACKER POLYMERS, for example, updated the life cycle
assessment data for homopolymer and copolymer dispersions as well as for dispersible
polymer powders. The division continued to work on replacing APEO-based surfactants
(alkylphenol ethoxylates) in its product range. By optimizing production processes, it
succeeded in achieving further substantial reductions in the percentage of volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) in numerous dispersions and polymer powders. Take the following
example: VINNAPAS® 5111 L is a VOC-reduced polymer powder for the formulation of selfleveling flooring compounds and fillers that conform to eco-labeling requirements, such as
EMICODE® EC1+ or Blue Angel.

Product Life Cycle

120
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

WACKER ECOWHEEL®

Since 2012, we have been using the WACKER® Eco Assessment Tool to evaluate
systematically the risks and opportunities of our product line from an environmental
perspective. We present these risks and opportunities in what is called an
“ECOWHEEL®.” We take account of material, water and energy consumption, as well as
ecotoxicity, over the entire product life cycle.

Resear
Research
ch and Development at T
Two
wo Levels
WACKER conducts R&D at two levels: centrally at our Corporate Research & Development
department and locally at our business divisions. Corporate R&D coordinates activities on
a company-wide basis and involves other departments, such as Corporate Engineering
(during process development). We also use a management process to keep our R&D
projects transparent throughout the Group. In 2014, we further optimized the Project
System Innovation (PSI) program we use to manage our projects, focusing on making the
compiled data more relevant in terms of actual benefits for projects and the portfolio.
We launched the New Solutions initiative in 2013. The goal is to develop technically and
commercially advanced solutions for new applications. Expertise from various areas in
the company is consolidated groupwide and applied to projects as needed. In 2014, we
worked on ten projects in this program. The market and technology evaluations conducted
under the initiative revealed potential additional sales worth hundreds of millions of euros.
Initial solutions developed through the New Solutions initiative have been placed with
customers for application testing.

121
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Breakdown of R&D Expenditures

R&D expenditures in 2014 amounted to €183.1 million (2013: €173.8 million). At 3.8 percent
(2013: 3.9 percent), the R&D rate – research and development spending as a percentage of
Group sales – was down slightly year over year due to the positive sales trend. The bulk of
R&D costs were incurred in the development of new products and production processes. In
2014, WACKER scientists worked on around 270 projects (2013: 260) based on more than
40 technology platforms. Over 20 percent of these projects were of a key strategic nature.
The highly promising fields in which we work include energy, electronics, construction
and automotive engineering as well as household and personal-care products, food and
biotechnology.

Investments in R&D
Our investments in R&D included pilot plants that we use to scale up project results
from the laboratory scale to full industrial-scale production, or to confirm results from
simulations. Examples include polysilicon deposition and conversion, as well as a facility
for producing electrically active silicone films. Corporate Research & Development has built
laboratory facilities for the production of nanostructured silicon for lithium-ion batteries.
Further investment spending funded laboratory equipment to investigate full cells of
lithium-ion batteries, for example.
Strategic Collaboration with Customers and Resear
Research
ch Institutes
Our business divisions conduct application-driven R&D. They focus on product and
process innovations relating to semiconductor technology, silicone and polymer chemistry,
and biotechnology, as well as on new processes for producing polycrystalline silicon.
We collaborate with customers, scientific institutions and universities in order to achieve
successful research results more quickly and efficiently. In the reporting period, WACKER
worked on around 50 research projects with more than 40 international research institutes
across three continents. Our collaborative efforts cover topics that include electricity
storage, biotechnology, process simulation and process development. In the field of
process development, we have established new partnerships with universities in Munich
and Stuttgart.
Local Knowledge T
Transfer
ransfer
WACKER has also created a worldwide network of 21 technical competence centers
that liaise between sales offices and local production sites. Specialists in these centers
customize products to regional requirements, taking account of climatic conditions,
national standards and local raw materials, for example. They develop formulations for
customers’ new products and optimize existing formulations.

122
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Our WACKER ACADEMY locations serve as a collection of forums for industry-specific
knowledge transfer between customers, distributors and WACKER experts. The focus is
on industry-specific courses, which now cover silicone applications in addition to polymer
chemistry, e.g. for cosmetics and paints. The training centers’ proximity to our
development and test laboratories promotes the sharing of ideas and enables participants
to conduct practical on-site tests. We work with company research facilities, universities
and institutes to ensure our seminars remain state of the art.

Publicly Funded Resear
Research
ch Pr
Projects
ojects
Some of our research projects were funded by the government in the reporting period.
Examples:
In the MAI Speed project, the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF) is funding a subproject in which WACKER is involved. Working with partners
from industry and science, we are doing research on new materials for use in fiberreinforced lightweight construction in areas such as the automotive industry.
In the Si-HTF project, the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature
Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) is supporting the development of
environmentally compatible high-temperature heat-transfer fluids for solar thermal
facilities. In this project, WACKER is developing high-temperature silicon-based heattransfer fluids for use in solar-thermal power plants with parabolic collectors. In contrast
to those achievable with existing heat-transfer systems, these products should make
higher operating temperatures possible in future systems, thus resulting in greater
efficiency. This could lower the cost of electricity generation. One particularly beneficial
feature of the new solution is its broad range of operating temperatures, which
eliminates the need for expensive trace heating. We are also investigating their use in
industrial heat-transfer applications.
In the OPERA project, WACKER SILICONES is working on phosphorescent polymers for
LED applications. This project is being supported at a European level by the European
Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council (ENIAC), and by the BMBF in Germany.
In the MAINPAGE joint research undertaking, where WACKER was involved in two
projects, the BMBF provided funds for the development of trailblazing new materials
for industrial photovoltaic applications with enhanced energy efficiency. WACKER
POLYSILICON had responsibility for a project aimed at producing granular polysilicon
of the highest product quality. Siltronic led the research on a continuous, crucible-free
pulling process for 200 mm monocrystals with granular silicon.
In the Fusion Proteins project, the BMBF and the Bavarian Ministry of Economic Affairs,
Infrastructure, Transport and Technology (STMWi) funded research on optimizing the
industrial-scale production of proteins through the secretion of fusion proteins in specific
E. coli K-12 bacterial strains.
In the Olefinic Fatty Acids project, the German Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Consumer Protection (BMELV) funded work on new methods for cleaving, transforming
and functionalizing olefinic fatty acids. We developed a method by which specialty
olefinic chemicals can be manufactured.
During 2014, our business divisions and Central R&D submitted applications for eight more
projects (in the areas of lightweight construction, energy storage, biologics and electronics)
to government sponsors, with approvals pending. Our externally-funded research projects
are coordinated by our Public Funding office, which evaluates candidate programs,
submits our project proposals and manages contacts with funders.

123
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Our R&D W
Workfor
orkforce
ce
WACKER had 1,061 research and development staff in 2014 (2013: 987), which represents
6.4 percent (2013: 6.2 percent) of the Group’s workforce. Our scientists and engineers
conduct basic research, develop new products and processes, and improve existing
processes. The lab and technical staff at our R&D, applications-technology and
production-support facilities work in our laboratories and in our production and pilot
plants, or on-site at our customers’ plants. Our other R&D personnel construct research
equipment in our workshops, or perform administrative functions in such fields as market
research and trend analysis.
We recognize the dedication of our researchers by presenting them with awards. The 2014
Alexander Wacker Innovation Award went to a project team for its ground-breaking work
on the ESETEC® 2.0 secretion system. The researchers were honored for their fundamental
analysis of the E. coli-based production system for pharmaceutical proteins and for making
enhancements which enable even highly complex molecules such as antibody fragments
to be produced cost-effectively and efficiently. Named after the company’s founder, the
Alexander Wacker Innovation Award has been presented every year since 2006 –
alternating between the categories of product innovation, process innovation and basic
research. In 2014, the €10,000 in prize money was awarded for innovation in basic
research. In the previous year, the prize was awarded in the process innovation category
and went to a project team at Siltronic that had developed a process for manufacturing
silicon wafers for high-performance devices. This granular float-zone process opens up
technological prospects for the custom high-performance wafer market.
WACKER Executive Board member Auguste
Willems (far left) with the winners of the 2014
Alexander Wacker Innovation Award (from left):
Dr. Carsten Bornhövd, Dr. Tobias Daßler and
Dr. Günter Wich. The researchers were honored
for enhancing a system for manufacturing
pharmaceutical proteins.

Siltronic AG confers its Inventor Award on employees who have delivered technological
innovations. In 2014, eight employees received this award for their creative thinking and the
systematic implementation of their projects to optimize wafer processing. With their CMP
(chemical-mechanical polishing process) and wet-bench cleaning projects, the two winners
in 2013 improved processes in the final wafer-treatment stages. The Siltronic Inventor
Award is bestowed in two categories – “Most Important Invention” and “Best Inventor” –
each offering €10,000 in prize money.

124
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Research for Sustainable Development

1

Fuel-cell project ended
Out-licensing
3 Methane
4 Lithium-ion batteries (LIB)
2

125
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Selected T
Topics
opics of Central R&D
In our research, we are devoting particular attention to energy storage and renewable
energy generation. Further R&D priorities are the highly promising fields of consumer care,
biotechnology and construction applications.
On the topic of energy, we continued our activities in electricity storage and conversion.
We are working on materials used in lithium-ion batteries (LIB) in order to enhance this
type of battery for automotive and consumer-product applications. We are also focusing
on lightweight construction, as lighter materials can be used to conserve raw materials and
energy, for instance in the automotive and aerospace industries. In these fields, we are
developing building blocks for composites.
We have developed nanoscale silicon structures and binders for use in anodes of lithiumion batteries. In tests conducted on batteries with these anodes, we have achieved good
stability in charge-discharge cycles: compared with commercially available anodes, these
have a much higher specific capacitance. We are also developing new additives in the
SafeBatt project, also funded by the BMBF, to improve the safety of lithium-ion batteries.
Their good gas permeability makes silicones suitable as a membrane material for all kinds
of applications. When combined with gas-selective materials, such membranes could
be used for separating gases. The hydrophobic nature of silicone films combined with
their high water-vapor permeability also makes them interesting as materials for textile
applications and air-filtration systems. We are conducting tests in a development project to
determine how such material systems might be used.
Sustainable Products
Over the last two years, WACKER has developed diverse products that promote
sustainability. Examples are presented below for the highly promising fields of energy,
urbanization, digitalization and rising affluence.

Energy
The energy sources of the future are the sun, wind, water, biomass and geothermal
power. WACKER is making a significant contribution to their efficient use, and WACKER
SILICONES has been driving forward research into electrically active silicone polymers.
Very thin films of these polymers lend themselves to energy recovery, and are also used for
actuators and sensors. In 2014, WACKER and one of its partners developed an innovative
algae bioreactor with highly transparent silicone rubber tubing from WACKER at its heart.

126
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Conversion of Wave Power into Electricity
Silicone films can play a pivotal role in
the conversion of wave power into
electricity. As part of the EPoSil project
sponsored by the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research
(BMBF), an industrial/R&D consortium
led by Robert Bosch GmbH is
developing the basic principles
underlying wave farms. As a member of
the project, WACKER is responsible for
developing and manufacturing
ELASTOSIL® Film, a precision silicone
film.

Low-maintenance generators based on electroactive
polymers made of ELASTOSIL® Film can transform the
power of ocean waves into energy. The idea behind this
“sandwich” of silicone film and electrodes is simple yet
ingenious: the action of the waves stretches a silicone
film and then compresses it again; this movement
generates electrical energy.

As silicone elastomers are electrically
insulating, have good dielectric
properties and endure long-term
mechanical loads with hardly any signs
of fatigue, ELASTOSIL® Film can be
used as a dielectric precision layer in
electroactive polymers (EAPs). EAPs alter their shape when a voltage is applied. Based
on this principle, silicone films can be used to develop innovative sensors, actuators and
generators. Potential applications range from intelligent pressure and strain sensors and
electrical relays to valves and peristaltic pumps. As a component of “artificial muscles” in
actuators, silicone films can contribute to replicating not only linear movements, but also
natural forms of movement.
Biocompatible SILPURAN® Film is ideal for use in heart-lung machines or for the
manufacture of atraumatic adhesive plasters. ELASTOSIL® Film and SILPURAN® Film
are made without the use of solvents in cleanroom conditions.

We are developing silicone resins that modify the proppants used in modern oil and gas
drilling technologies. WACKER® SG 3377, a silicone oil demulsifier, can break crude oil
emulsions even when the oil-water mixture is not at the proper processing temperature –
a problem that arises, for example, on offshore oil rigs. Even at temperatures below 40 °C,
the product exhibits outstanding performance, reducing both the water content of crude oil
to 1 percent and the concentration of oil in water to under 10 ppm.
WACKER actively supports climate-friendly mobility – whether in battery research or as a
manufacturer of high-tech materials for electric vehicles. Specialty silicones can withstand
the higher temperatures that arise in car engines which have been downsized to achieve
better fuel efficiency. Carbon-fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRPs) with silicone-coated fibers
are 80 percent lighter than steel. That makes them a key component in the automotive
sector for extending the range of electric vehicles and reducing the fuel consumption of
combustion engines.

127
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

We have refined our highly transparent liquid silicones for lighting applications and are
supporting energy-efficient LED-based vehicle headlamp technologies by developing
highly transparent silicone rubber compounds, which are used to make components for
secondary optical devices. The tremendous increases in LED performance over the last few
years has meant that organic materials are no longer capable of withstanding the heat and
light flux. That is why high-performance LEDs are being produced using heat- and lightresistant silicone-based encapsulation and lens materials. LUMISIL® silicone elastomers
make it possible to produce a moldless optical lens directly on an LED chip in a single
production step. In this manner, LED components can now be manufactured in very large
quantities with modest plant and process investment.
The generation of safe, clean power from wind plays a central role at WACKER, too.
Wind turbine blades consist of half-shells of composite materials that are bonded together.
Such bonding requires the use of special high-impact modifiers for wind turbines. With its
VENTOTEC® impact modifiers, WACKER is able to supply a new generation of products
for optimizing reactive resins. The powder-form additives combine in one product the two
technologies for the production of silicones and organic polymers. The result is a hybrid
product that makes adhesive layers stronger and more durable. The additives significantly
enhance the impact strength of epoxy resins and other thermosets.

Polysilicon: Energy-Generating Solar Installations
WACKER is among the main suppliers worldwide of polysilicon for the production of solar
modules. In the reporting period, WACKER continued to expand its production capacity
for hyperpure polysilicon to meet increasing demand from the photovoltaic industry and to
support the switch to renewable energy sources.
Polysilicon is a hyperpure material that is deposited from trichlorosilane in the form of
rods and crushed into chunks for further processing. Our customers use it to produce
monocrystalline or multicrystalline solar wafers, which are in turn utilized to make solar
modules, e.g. for installation on roofs. In the reporting period, we continued to strengthen
our technological lead in polysilicon production. Our aim is to improve our silicon
deposition process and to enhance our closed production loop, which ranges from silicon
metal, hyperpure solar-grade and electronic-grade silicon through to silicones and
pyrogenic silica.
Technological progress in the development of solar modules continues to proceed in leaps
and bounds. Wafer thickness has been reduced: from 450 µm in 1995 to 250 µm in 2005
and to under 200 µm in 2010. The standard thickness is currently around 180 µm. Cell
efficiency has risen in parallel, and is now around 18 percent for multicrystalline standard
cells and well over 19 percent for monocrystalline ones. High-efficiency monocrystalline
cells have efficiency levels of between 20 and 25 percent.
The energy payback time – the time taken for a photovoltaic cell to generate the energy
used in its production – has become even shorter. Depending on the geographical location
of the solar cells, this payback time now ranges from 6 months (in the Sahara) to 18 months
(in northern Europe). Each metric ton of polysilicon used in solar modules prevents the
emission of 6,000 tons of CO2. (Source: study issued in 2011 by the Karlsruhe Institute of
Technology.)

128
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

Dispersible Polymer Powder for Building Insulation: Energy-Efficient Construction
Saving energy – particularly in construction – has developed into a global trend. On top
of that, there is climate change, which makes it necessary to insulate against heat as
well as cold. VINNAPAS® dispersible polymer powder ensures that the adhesive mortar
sticks to both the wall and the insulation material in exterior insulation and finish systems
/ external thermal insulation composite systems (EIFS/ETICS). The dispersible polymer
powder boosts adhesion and impact resistance within the base coat. Hydrophobizing
VINNAPAS® polymer powders, in particular, prevent moisture forming in the top coat.
Modern ETICS/EIFS for building insulation consist
of a multilayered material composite. But it takes
the addition of a dispersible polymer powder to
create a permanently stable insulation system.

There is enormous potential for using EIFS/ETICS to achieve a long-term reduction in
greenhouse-gas emissions. Heating or air-conditioning accounts for more than half of a
building’s energy demand. A house that is inadequately insulated loses a large part of its
energy via the exterior walls. An ETICS/EIFS system can reduce a building’s heating costs
by up to 50 percent.
The German Energy Agency (dena) has calculated the savings potential that can be
achieved using insulation alone. While over 10,000 kilowatt hours of heating energy escape
through the walls of an uninsulated single-family house each year, this can be reduced to
just 2,200 kilowatt hours if the external walls are insulated.

Almost 80 percent of the energy consumed by buildings is required for heating. Most of the heating energy
that is lost escapes through the building envelope. For a single-family house this averages at 25 percent.
In a ten-story apartment building, 40 percent of the heating energy is lost through exterior walls (Source;
available in German only: Qualitätsgedämmt e.V.)

129
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

More than 80 percent of residential buildings in Germany were built prior to the introduction
of the third thermal insulation ordinance of 1995. The energy rating of two out of three
of these buildings needs to be improved. If all residential buildings were renovated to
comply with the energy saving ordinance of 2009, 357 TWh heating energy could be saved
annually. Here, building insulation alone has a savings potential of 177 TWh. This is 1.8
times as much energy as German nuclear power plants generate per year.
The biggest energy savings on houses built prior to 1993 can be achieved by improving the
energy rating of the building envelope, especially the exterior walls. The climate footprint
of the past 35 years for exterior insulation systems in Germany is impressive:
997 million m2 of exterior insulation
Equivalent to savings of 92 billion liters of heating oil
Equivalent to a reduction of 279 million metric tons of CO2 emissions
(Source; available in German only: Qualitätsgedämmt e.V.)
Around 20 to 30 percent of heating energy is lost
through poorly insulated windows. ELASTOSIL®
silicone rubber seals windows, is weatherresistant and withstands temperature fluctuations.

Urbanization and Construction
More than half of the world’s population now lives in cities. This creates new challenges
for our communal life. We need infrastructure that conserves resources better, construction
that is more intelligent, and materials that are lighter. As one of the world’s leading
manufacturers of construction chemicals, WACKER is contributing to the development of
better cities for the future. An example of this is particularly important for cities in emerging
economies where water is scarce: sealing slurries using WACKER binders can seal leaky
canals securely and economically, thus preventing water from being lost.
VINNAPAS® dispersions and dispersible polymer powders are used as polymer binders
(e.g. in tile adhesives, self-leveling compounds and interior wall paints) in the construction
sector. They make it possible to formulate construction chemicals with reduced VOC
emissions, which meet stringent environmental standards such as the EMICODE®
emissions standard set by Germany’s GEV (Association for the Control of Emissions in
Products for Flooring Installation). In the reporting period, we launched a new polymer
powder for the formulation of cost-efficient, low-emission self-leveling flooring
compounds. VINNAPAS® 4220 L can be used to produce self-leveling compounds that
result in smooth, uniform surfaces satisfying ecolabel requirements such as EMICODE®
EC1+.

Dispersions for Envir
Environmentally
onmentally Sound Paints
VINNAPAS® dispersions are used, among other things, as binders for interior-wall paints.
Particularly ecofriendly dispersions are those made without substances that emit
formaldehyde or APEO-based surfactants (alkylphenol ethoxylates), and containing just

130
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

minute amounts of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). A VOC content of <1 g/l in interiorwall paints ensures a pleasant and healthy indoor climate. In the reporting period, we
premiered the VINNAPAS® EF 3818 polymer dispersion for low-odor, low-VOC interior paint
formulations. It is made without APEOs, plasticizers or solvents.

Dispersible Polymer Powders for Tile Adhesives, Flooring and Insulation Systems
Urban centers are booming worldwide. Wherever space gets tight, the buildings get
higher. This puts new demands on materials. VINNAPAS® dispersible polymer powders
make it possible to manufacture insulation boards comprising different materials, including
renewable substances such as cork and wood-wool.
In the reporting period, we launched VINNAPAS®
8620 E, a polymer powder for the formulation of
high-quality, low-emission tile adhesives, which
can be used to reliably bond modern large-format
or very thin tiles as well as porcelain or naturalstone materials. VINNAPAS® 8620 E is free of
plasticizing additives.

Silicone Resin Emulsion Paints: Long-Lasting Facade Pr
Protection
otection
SILRES® BS products based on quartz-like structures protect exterior paints and plasters.
The facades stay attractive for longer and are better insulated, and energy efficiency is
boosted as a result. Silicone resin emulsion paints (SREPs) are permeable to water vapor
and so help to improve the climate indoors.
A coat of high-quality silicone resin emulsion paint reduces heat loss from external walls by
as much as 40 percent. Heat is lost faster from damp walls – the role of the silicone resins
is to help keep the walls dry. A SREP coating decreases heat demand by an average of
4.6 percent. Silicone resin emulsion paints and silicone resin plasters lengthen the intervals
between renovations of facades by up to 25 years. Some listed buildings cannot be
insulated with ETICS/EIFS. In such cases, a silicone resin emulsion paint is one of the few
materials that will improve a building’s energy balance.
Gypsum dry-mix mortars formulated with SILRES® BS Powder S can be mixed very quickly
without generating any dust. It can be used indoors, since it is environmentally compatible
and releases neither alcohol nor other volatile organic compounds (VOCs).

Digitalization
Siltronic AG is a global leader in the market for hyperpure silicon wafers and a partner to
many top-tier chip manufacturers. It develops and produces wafers with diameters up to
300 mm at sites in Europe, Asia and the USA. Wafers are cut from silicon ingots and then
used to produce chips for electronic devices. Sensors, power devices, microcontrollers
and other electronic chips make sure that modern electrical appliances and hybrid and
electric vehicles are safe and economical.
The performance of semiconductor devices doubles about every two years. Among the key
performance-boosting parameters are the design rules achieved on a silicon wafer. They
determine how many transistors fit on a device per square centimeter. The semiconductor
industry’s current standard design rules of 22 and 16 nanometers (nm) are increasingly

131
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

being replaced by an 11 nm standard. In the coming years, the design rule will be reduced
even further, to 8 nm, and Siltronic is currently developing processes to produce 300 mm
wafers that can be used for this new design rule. In the reporting period, regular shipments
of 11 nm wafers continued to increase and we further refined the technology for 8 nm
wafers. We also worked on wafers for power and LED applications.

Our highly transparent silicone gels are deployed in energy-saving displays and the touchscreens of
mobile electronic devices.

Rising Affluence
Affluence is on the rise almost all over the world, lifting expectations as regards living
conditions, food, health and comfort as well. WACKER is driving innovations in all of
these areas. We intend to keep pace with rising affluence, especially in emerging-market
economies, by offering products manufactured using energy- and resource-efficient
processes. Such products include polymers, e.g. for the paper and packaging industry, and
cyclodextrins, e.g. for foodstuffs.
In the reporting period, we launched new products made with sustainable ingredients
that target the highly promising field of rising affluence. Here is an example from medical
engineering: surgeons have recently begun using silicones from WACKER to make tissuemimicking “phantoms.” ELASTOSIL® RT 601 and ELASTOSIL® P 7676 are silicones of this
kind, and have been deployed in experiments to distinguish tumors from healthy tissue.
We have developed SILPURAN® 2112, a skin-compatible silicone adhesive for modern
wound dressings, while SILPURAN® 2438 ADH silicone adhesive is suitable for bonding
textiles and composites, e.g. of the kind used to make prosthetics. This product, too, is
both biocompatible and skin compatible.
WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS has launched a nature-identical hydroxytyrosol branded
HTEssence®, which is suitable for use in nutritional supplements and cosmetics.
Hydroxytyrosol is an antioxidant with therapeutic effects on blood pressure, joints as well
as the immune and cardiovascular systems. As a free-radical scavenger, it can mitigate the
effects of skin aging and lighten the color of the skin.
We have developed products for nutritional supplements that enhance the bioavailability of
active ingredients. With CAVAMAX® W8, a cyclodextrin, we can enhance the bioavailability
of curcumin 40-fold. Curcumin, the active compound in turmeric, is a powerful antioxidant
that exhibits anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and hypoallergenic properties. As curcumin is
extremely hydrophobic, it is not readily absorbed in the human bloodstream.

132
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

In addition to being an acknowledged of source
dietary fiber, CAVAMAX® W6, an alphacyclodextrin, has stabilizing properties that make
it suitable for other innovative food-contact
applications. It is a low-cholesterol, purely vegan
alternative to caseinate in coconut milk powders
and enables cream desserts or fruit mousse to be
made without the addition of fat or eggs.

In the reporting period, the EU Commission certified a health claim for the proven healthbenefit effect of alpha-cyclodextrins. The EU expert opinion confirmed that alphacyclodextrins can reduce the increase in blood sugar after a starchy meal. It thus backs
up a recommendation issued by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). Food
manufacturers can now state on their labeling that alpha-cyclodextrin used as dietary fiber
has a blood-sugar-lowering effect. Alpha-cyclodextrins are annular, plant-based molecules
obtained from renewable raw materials, such as potatoes and corn. They are used to
provide dietary fiber, e.g. in beverages, dairy products, muesli bars and breakfast cereals.
Our researchers at Wacker Biotech have enhanced the E. coli-based secretion technology
used for the production of pharmaceutical proteins. With ESETEC® 2.0, we now have an
efficient method for producing high yields of antibody fragments for medical therapies. The
method was first applied for the US company MedImmune, a subsidiary of AstraZeneca.
This technological development was honored with the 2014 Alexander Wacker Innovation
Award in the category of basic research.
Wacker Biotech and XL-protein GmbH have shown that antibody fragments with
substantially extended activity can be produced efficiently using WACKER’s ESETEC®
secretion technology and XL-protein’s PASylation®. We custom-developed a bacterial cell
line and obtained high yields of the PASylated antibody fragment, which is currently
being tested for effectiveness against autoimmune diseases. Working with Metheresis
Translational Research, Wacker Biotech developed a cell line based on ESETEC® for
producing an antibody fragment for a cancer drug.
In Asia, especially in the key market of India,
people often still wash their garments by hand. In
the reporting period, we developed SILFOAM®
single-rinse technology. Antifoam agents in the
detergent mean only one rinse is required, thus
saving water.

The new silicone impregnant WACKER® HC 321 facilitates the manufacture of cleaning
agents that lend a remarkably water-repellent surface to textiles and other substrates.
WACKER® HC 321 is an aqueous silicone emulsion designed for solvent-free household
products.

133
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Product Stewardship

GENIOPLAST® Pellet P plus has been approved as an additive for plastics in food-contact
use, making it suitable for the manufacture of kitchen appliances or packaging. It enhances
the effect of fire-retardant additives, and creates smooth surfaces, e.g. for refrigerator
inserts, that are especially easy to clean. As a processing aid for compounders, the product
lowers energy consumption, and makes for higher throughput and less waste.
GENIOSIL® XL 70 is an arylalkoxysilane monomer designed as a water scavenger for
silane-curing adhesive and sealant formulations. It is ideal for products that must be free
of unpleasant odors when used, e.g. adhesives for parquet flooring or liquid waterproofing
systems applied over large areas. In the reporting period, we launched the VINNAPAS®
EP6300 and VINNAPAS® EP7000 dispersions, which are binders for water-based
adhesives and free of alkylphenol-based surfactants (APEOs).

Since their surface area is large, floor coverings can emit volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Used as
binders for carpet coatings, VINNAPAS® VAE dispersions emit hardly any VOCs, exhibit better flame
retardance and are virtually odorless. With VINNAPAS® CA 55 as a binder, it is possible to formulate both
precoats and secondary coats to bond the backings of carpets used, e.g., in residential settings. Floor
coverings of this kind, which bear the “GUT” label of the German Association of Environmentally Friendly
Carpets (GUT e.V.), must undergo extensive analysis for possible pollutants.

134
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

135
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Safety
138 Prevention
143 Incident Management
144 Accidents & Incidents

At WACKER’s Burghausen site, the teams of safety
engineers and safety managers are led by two
women. Susanne Ackermann (left) and Carola
Schock are responsible for preventing accidents at
the site. “The days when safety was merely a matter
of policing are long gone.” The principle task of the
two safety managers is to provide advice and
support to the various departments on all issues
relating to safety.

Prevention

Prevention
Workplace Accidents 1 Involving Permanent Staff and Temporary Workers

1 Accidents

leading to at least one work day missed

Managing plants and processes in a way that poses no risk to people or the environment is
an important objective at WACKER. We therefore operate a groupwide safety management
system that covers both workplace safety and plant safety. Our processes and workplace
safety standards will be aligned with international standard OHSAS 18001 by the end of
2015. Systematic workplace safety includes the regular evaluation of hazards and workarea monitoring.
Risk Management
The first step in ensuring plant safety is to identify the risks systematically and then assess
them. This includes analyzing how well we control the energy (e.g. pressure, heat) existing
in a process and determining what influence an individual fault might have on a chain of
events leading up to a failure or accident. On completion of this comprehensive analysis,
we specify safety measures that will prevent undesirable incidents.
In 2013, our ANSIKO project on machine safety targeted our production sites in Germany.
In 2014, we turned our attention to all international sites, identified machinery that poses
a risk of injury, subjected their safety plans to critical review and made them even safer to
protect employees.
Safety Training & Employee Motivation
WACKER attaches particular importance to providing ongoing training to its safety experts.
We hold regular training sessions, for example, on plant safety and explosion protection.
Group experts organize safety training at WACKER sites, including those outside Germany.
In the period under review, we trained our specialists in Adrian, USA, and Zhangjiagang,
China, primarily in the field of machine safety. We carried out safety reviews at the following
sites:
Jandira, Brazil
Holla, Norway
Kolkata, India
Nanjing and Zhangjiagang, China
Ulsan, South Korea
Nünchritz, Freiberg, Cologne and Jena, Germany

138
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Prevention

But it is not only our safety experts who regularly attend trainings. All our employees are
given safety training specific to their individual workplace, e.g. in the form of e-learning
courses. WACKER Germany, for example, offers 32 online training courses on workplace
safety. Topics range from general safety guidelines for office and laboratory workers to
instruction on safe behavior in ex areas and the classification of hazardous materials. Each
instruction module contains tests that enable participants to assess their progress.
WACKER published a safety manual for partner companies in Germany in 2013. It lays
down standard policies and procedures for working with partner companies. The manual
is directed not only at the partner companies, but also at their customers, such as
construction managers, project engineers and production supervisors. The goal of the
manual is to ensure the same level of safety for employees of partner companies at our
sites as for WACKER employees. Customers are requested to assess the safety aspects
of their suppliers’ behavior transparently and unconditionally. The partner companies’
approach to safety flows into the supplier assessment.
WACKER Greater China has been supporting other chemical companies in establishing
process-safety systems since 2013. WACKER organized appropriate training for more
than 20 companies at the request of the Zhangjiagang free-trade zone, the Association
of International Chemical Manufacturers in China (AICM) and the International Council of
Chemical Associations (ICCA).
Our 2015 goal for occupational safety is to reduce our groupwide accident rate (the number
of workplace accidents per million hours worked) to below 2.0. As part of our efforts toward
this goal, we set ourselves an interim target for 2014 of fewer than 3.0 workplace accidents
per million hours worked at German sites. We almost reached this target: in Germany, there
were 3.4 workplace accidents with work days missed per million hours worked in 2014.
Groupwide, the figure was 2.8. That was 26 percent down on the previous year (2013: 3.8
workplace accidents). Nonetheless, we are lagging behind the chemical companies that
lead the way in occupational safety.
In terms of reportable accidents (accidents with more than three work days missed),
WACKER’s numbers are far better than the German chemical industry average. The
reportable accident rate in 2014 was 1.2 per million hours worked (2013: 1.4), while, in
2013, Germany’s BG RCI (the statutory employer liability insurance carrier of the basic
materials and chemical industries) registered 9.3 reportable accidents per million hours
worked in chemical companies. During the reporting period, again there was not a single
fatal workplace accident among WACKER employees.
Since 2014, we have also been logging accidents involving employees of partner
companies working on WACKER sites. Groupwide, there were 33 accidents with work days
missed at our partner companies.
Very few of the accidents at our sites are chemical in nature. The most common causes
are tripping, slipping and falling, and performing manual activities without due care. Not
satisfied with our accident rate, we are increasing our occupational-safety efforts. We are
systematically implementing our new safety program – WACKER Safety Plus (WSP), which
incorporates successful safety elements from sites that have particularly low accident
rates. Such elements include safety patrols, discussions with the workforce and emergency
drills. WACKER Safety Plus has the goal of recognizing and avoiding unsafe behavior – on
the way to and from work, in the office, at the plant, when operating machinery, or when
handling chemicals.

139
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Prevention

In 2014, WACKER focused on reviewing and updating hazard assessments at our German
sites. This yielded improved protection concepts and measures in many areas. The
program will be continued across all German sites until 2016.

Workplace Accidents Involving Permanent Staff and Temporary
Workers
2014

2013

2012

2.8

3.8

4.7

Europe

3.5

4.5

5.3

The Americas

1.6

2.6

4.3

0.8

0.6

1.2

1.2

1.4

2.1

–

–

–

Accident rate across Group: accidents1 per 1 million
hours worked

Asia
Accident rate across Group: reportable accidents
per 1 million hours worked

2

Fatal workplace accidents
1
2

Accidents leading to at least one work day missed
Accidents leading to over three work days missed

Decoys on Site
In 2013, WACKER’s main site in
Burghausen conducted a campaign
called “Take the Plunge.” Its goal was to
encourage employees to approach
colleagues and supervisors about
careless behavior. Over a ten-month
period, safety officers and foreman-level
managers were deployed to simulate
typical behavior with risk potential: they
used their cell phones while cycling,
climbed over fences, rode their bikes on
the sidewalk and disregarded other
familiar safety rules, without ever being exposed to real danger. Any employees who had
the courage to confront the decoys were praised and rewarded with a raffle ticket.
“The focus was not only on employees behaving in accordance with safety rules
themselves, but on communicating with others,” explains Stefan Henn, Group Safety
Coordinator and initiator of the campaign. The goal was to bring about a change in
culture. “We want employees to gradually lose their inhibitions and start talking to one
another about unsafe conduct. The ‘Take the Plunge’ initiative certainly got us off to a
great start.”

140
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Prevention

Practiced Safety
Low accident figures are a reflection of safety-conscious conduct. At WACKER, we give
special recognition to facilities that operate for sustained periods of time without a
reportable accident. Some of these have also been honored by institutions outside the
company. Our Ulsan site in South Korea is one such example. During the reporting
period, this site received an impressive two awards: in 2013 from the Korean Gas Safety
Corporation for twelve years without a gas-related accident, and in 2014 from the Korea
Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) for 13 years without any accident at all.
Transport Safety
WACKER ensures that its products are safely stored and transported. Before loading
vehicles, we carry out stringent checks on them, especially if they are carrying hazardous
goods. In 2014, we arranged for almost 7,800 trucks to be checked (2013: roughly 8,500).
If a vehicle fails inspection, we continue sending it back until it passes. Failure rates
have been low for years now. In 2014, the failure rate for shipments of hazardous goods
in Germany dropped further to 0.3 percent (2013: 1.2 percent). WACKER normally audits
hazardous-goods shippers every two years.
We rely on well-trained personnel for transport safety, too. In 2013 and 2014, our workforce
in Germany alone completed around 2,500 classroom training courses and 2,750 online
courses on the safe transportation of hazardous goods.
We regularly review aspects of transport safety with our logistics providers, e.g. during
the annual Logistics Day. If deficiencies are found, we agree on improvements and then
follow up on their implementation. WACKER uses in-house criteria and internationally
recognized systems, such as the Safety and Quality Assessment System (SQAS) operated
by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), to select logistics service providers
and evaluate their performance. Our evaluation criteria include drivers’ qualifications and
training, vehicle equipment and accident response. Through the use of standards and
specifications, WACKER ensures that even the subcontractors working for logistics
providers meet our stringent safety requirements.
For products that have a high hazard potential, we use packaging and tanks of the highest
quality that often exceed statutory requirements. Wherever possible, we assess the road
route to be taken by the transport.
We recorded a total of 16 transport incidents in 2013 and 2014. This number includes not
only accidents and incidents involving the distribution of our intermediates and products
where we commissioned the transport, but also incidents that do not involve hazardous
goods, as well as those that do not adversely impact on people or the environment. These
incidents, too, form part of our shipper assessments.

141
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Prevention

Transport Accidents
Number of Accidents

2014

2013

2012

Road

5

4

8

Rail

2

1

2

Sea

1

2

–

Inland waterways

–

1

–

Air

–

–

–

142
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Incident Management

Incident Management
Our safety management focuses on prevention. However, safety-critical events cannot
always be avoided. Since 2013, we have been using SPIRIT, our new IT sustainability
reporting system, to register all incidents across the group relating to safety, health and
the environment. The reports are evaluated and measures taken. Where other divisions and
sites could learn from incidents, reports are compiled and submitted to corporate entities
with similar risk potential.
At our largest site in Burghausen, employees have been able to file online reports on safetycritical situations quickly and unbureaucratically since 2013. The reports are forwarded
from the database to the supervisor, who acts on them immediately. The supervisor informs
any colleagues at risk and works with them to devise a way of defusing the danger.
Every WACKER site has its emergency response plan detailing cooperation between
internal and external emergency response teams, and with the authorities. Once a year, the
plant fire departments at our largest sites, Burghausen and Nünchritz, conduct emergency
drills coordinated with the local fire and emergency services. These drills provide a
practical opportunity to rehearse a large-scale emergency response. Afterward, the
exercise is analyzed to identify and eliminate any weak points. Training drills are regularly
carried out at our major foreign sites, such as Zhangjiagang and Nanjing in China, too.
Not only do WACKER’s plant fire departments train fire departments from the local area
– they also invite the fire departments of other companies and municipalities to WACKER
sites, where they can prepare their response to accidents involving hazardous goods.
TUIS: Accident Assistance
The German chemical industry established its Transport Accident Information and
Emergency Response System (TUIS) (German-language webpage only) in 1982 to provide
assistance in the event of chemical accidents. WACKER was involved in this network right
from the start. Today, TUIS comprises some 130 chemical companies, along with their plant
fire departments and specialists (chemists, toxicologists, production experts, etc). Public
services, such as fire departments, police and disaster control agencies, can contact TUIS
for telephone consultation services or request specialized equipment or assistance from
experts. TUIS is part of the German chemical industry’s contribution to the Responsible
Care® initiative. WACKER’s TUIS experts can be called on to assist with accidents involving
our products anywhere in the world.

WACKER Firefighters’ Activities for TUIS
2014

2013

2012

38

23

26

Stage 2 Expert advice at accident scene

1

1

2

Stage 3 Technical assistance at accident scene

6

4

11

45

28

39

Stage 1 Expert advice by phone

Total

143
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Accidents and Incidents

Accidents and Incidents
No matter how many preventive measures are taken, accidents and environmentally
relevant incidents can never be completely ruled out. At WACKER, we make sure we learn
from such events to prevent their recurrence.
We use the criteria of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) to assess safety and
environmentally relevant incidents (see diagram). These include substance spills, fires and
explosions, as well as incidents that have no adverse impact on people or the environment,
e.g. if all of a spilled substance was contained by the catch basin or the sewer system and
was eliminated by in-plant wastewater treatment facilities.
In 2014, we recorded 22 CEFIC-rated safety and environmentally relevant incidents
throughout the Group (2013: 25). Since 2014, we have expressed this number of incidents
as a ratio of 1 million hours worked. This performance indicator, which we call the WACKER
Process Safety Incident Rate or WPSIR, is tracked across the Group so that we can
improve our safety management record. In 2014, the WPSIR was 0.8 incidents per million
hours worked.

Evaluation of Events According to CEFIC Criteria

1

Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals

144
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Accidents and Incidents

Safety and Environmentally-Relevant Incidents1
2014

2013

2012

Group

22

25

29

Groupwide environment- and safety-related
incidents per 1 million hours worked2

0.8

–

–

1
2

According to criteria laid down by CEFIC
WACKER Process Safety Incident Rate (WPSIR), first determined in 2014

145
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Employees
148 Headcount Trend
150 Personnel Development
163 Life & Careers
166 Compensation and Social Benefits
170 Employee Representation
171 Health Protection

On their own initiative and with personal
dedication, a group of WACKER’s female staff
have set up an internal mentoring program for
women executives. The following are members of
the Mentoring Circle team (clockwise from left):
Corinna Müller, Dr. Birgit Schwab, Kristina Wilde
and Sabine Zallinger.

Headcount Trend

Headcount Trend
WACKER’s headcount fell in 2013 by 1.7 percent (283 employees). In 2014, the workforce
increased by 694 employees (4.3 percent). At the 2013 reporting date (December 31),
WACKER had 16,009 employees worldwide, and 16,703 a year later.
The decline in 2013 was mainly due to a restrictive hiring policy when filling open positions.
Furthermore, Siltronic began merging the organization of the Burghausen and Freiberg
sites in this year. In Germany, the number of employees at Siltronic was reduced by around
300 in the period under review through intra-Group transfers, phased early retirement and
voluntary severance packages. The short-time work schedule that had been introduced at
Burghausen’s polysilicon facilities back in early October 2012 was canceled in February
2013. WACKER made this decision amid growing demand from its solar-sector customers.
The number of employees increased again in 2014 due to the Group taking a majority
stake in the Siltronic Samsung Wafer Pte. Ltd. joint venture in Singapore and acquiring Scil
Proteins Production GmbH in Halle, Germany.
Most employees (just under three quarters) are based in Germany, the remainder abroad.
While the number of permanent contracts in the period under review went up, the number
of fixed-term contracts fell once more. Some 98 percent of WACKER employees
groupwide have permanent contracts.

Jobs
2014

2013

2012

Group

16,703

16,009

16,292

Germany

12,366

12,322

12,635

International

4,337

3,687

3,657

Percentage outside Germany

26.0

23.0

22.4

New hires, groupwide

636

544

683

Percentage new hires, groupwide

3.8

3.4

4.2

2014

2013

2012

16,319

15,611

15,867

Permanent and Fixed-Term Employees

Group
Permanent employees
Fixed-term employees
Total

384

398

425

16,703

16,009

16,292

148
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Headcount Trend

The company follows a flexible personnel-planning strategy in order to deal with production
peaks and economic downturns, while at the same time protecting the permanent staff.
If we must save on personnel costs, we first reduce the number of temporary workers.
The next phase involves not renewing fixed-term contracts. The third step is to consider
introducing short-time work in those business divisions most affected by a downturn. All of
these measures are decided in close consultation with employee representatives.

Temporary Workers (as of Dec. 31 Reporting Date)
2014

2013

2012

527

344

91

Of which Germany

393

286

14

Of which international

134

58

77

Percentage temporary workers, groupwide

3.2

2.1

0.6

Percentage temporary workers, Germany

3.2

2.3

0.1

Percentage temporary workers, international

3.1

1.6

2.1

Group

1

1

Ratio of temporary workers to employees groupwide

WACKER regularly informs its employees regarding current trends within and outside of
the Group that could affect business development. Employees receive up-to-date and
comprehensive information on material changes in operations. The respective national and
international duties of disclosure are hereby observed.

149
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Personnel Development

Personnel Development
WACKER needs committed and skilled workers if it is to remain innovative and competitive.
We offer our employees an optimal foundation for exploiting their potential and further
developing their skills – beginning with vocational training all the way to a variety of
advanced training options. There are training and incentives programs available for each
qualification and career move.

150
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Vocational Training

Vocational Training
Vocational training is the first step of personnel development at WACKER. Training takes
place at the Burghausen, Nünchritz, Freiberg and Munich sites in Germany.
The principal facility is the Burghausen Vocational Training Center (BBiW), which was
established by WACKER in 1969. The BBiW offers not only initial/advanced vocational
training and retraining to young people, but also courses for experienced staff. Well known
beyond the local area, the center believes that its responsibility extends to providing
training to non-WACKER staff from 18 partner companies. In 2014, 58 trainees from these
companies started courses at the BBiW (2013: 53).
BBiW courses cover 18 vocations and six work/study programs to bachelor degree level.
The main focus is on the scientific and technical jobs typically encountered in the chemical,
electrical and metalworking sectors. In 2014, 176 young people started training at
WACKER or the BBiW (2013: 185). In total, the company employed 635 trainees, slightly
fewer than a year earlier (2013: 664) – with 541 (2013: 564) in scientific and technical
disciplines and 94 (2013: 111) in business administration. After graduating, they have a
good chance of finding employment. In 2014, WACKER offered jobs to the majority of
suitable trainees – 162 graduates – hiring 111 of them temporarily and 51 permanently. In
2013, 124 graduates were offered permanent positions.
At 4.9 percent, the 2014 percentage of trainees (ratio of trainees to Group employees in
Germany) was slightly below the previous year’s level (2013: 5.2 percent). The BBiW’s
vocational training is complemented by work/study programs to bachelor level: business
administration, business IT, applied IT, engineering management, electrical engineering and
process engineering. In these courses, study at a vocational education institute alternates
with quarterly practical phases. For these courses of study, WACKER collaborates with
the universities of Mannheim, Heidenheim and Stuttgart, which specialize in work/study
programs.
The BBiW intensified its marketing efforts targeting high school students during the
reporting period to counteract the decline in applicant numbers resulting from
demographic change. The training center thus revamped its website and invested in
advertising on public buses. It also invited its trainees to participate in tradeshows and
school visits to provide high school students with first-hand accounts of life on the job.
The high quality of BBiW’s training is evidenced by all the awards won by its trainees. The
Chamber of Industry and Commerce for Munich and Upper Bavaria named a chemical
technician and a logistics clerk the best of the class of 2013. At the German Skills
competition, an electrical installer and an electronics and instrumentation systems
technician qualified for World Skills 2013 in Leipzig and were presented with the
“Excellence” medal for their achievements. In 2014, 31 trainees completed their training
with the highest possible grade, and their accomplishment was recognized by the
Chamber of Industry and Commerce. The Nünchritz site has produced Saxony’s best
trainee chemical technician for the third time in succession.

151
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Vocational Training

Welding to the Top
Young WACKER welders from the
Burghausen Vocational Training Center
(BBiW) delivered an outstanding
performance at the 2013 Bavarian
“Young Welders” competition, obtaining
three gold and two silver medals. At the
SLV welding institute in Munich, young
people aged between 16 and 23
displayed their skills.
In the “novice welders” skill-level class,
eleven teenagers under 19 years of age
competed in four categories. The young
craftsmen had to pass a theoretical
At the top of Bavarian welding: Carmen Niedermeier.
exam, and prove their skill in welding
fillet and butt welds. Three WACKER
trainees successfully sent the sparks
flying: Sabrina Hufnagl went right to the top of the winners’ podium as Bavaria’s top gas
welder, Carmen Niedermeier came second in the TIG welding category, and Andreas
Hechemer achieved second place in manual arc welding.
The intense competition preparations at the BBiW also paid off for two WACKER
colleagues who participated in the under 23 age group: Tobias Schmid took gold in MAG
welding and Lukas Spitzendobler won the gas welding category. Both of them qualified for
the national competition in Essen.

Trainees
2014

2013

2012

Number of new trainees

176

185

205

Number of all trainees (all phases)

635

664

657

162

123

174

6

9

10

4.9

5.1

4.9

Thereof hired by WACKER on completion of
training
Total number of employees in retraining
Trainees/retrainees as a percentage
of total WACKER Germany employees

University graduates can join WACKER’s 18-month General Management Trainee Program
(GTP). The program has an excellent reputation. This is also evidenced by the high
number of qualified applicants. Four university graduates completed the program in 2013.
WACKER launched this trainee program back in 1997; since then, 79 graduates have
completed management training. After an orientation phase, the trainees work for three to
six months on various projects that often involve periods spent abroad.

152
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Advanced Training

Advanced Training
Number of Training-Course Participants

WACKER will remain innovative and competitive as long as it has highly-skilled employees,
which is why we offer all our employees opportunities for additional training. Personnel
development at WACKER seeks to cultivate employees’ strengths and to target specific
groups. We encourage our employees to engage in lifelong learning and to remain open to
change – especially since we have to adjust to longer working lives.
At least once a year, employees and supervisors discuss development measures during
performance reviews. This approach applies to all hierarchy levels. In 2013, more than
17,500 places at seminars, advanced training courses and conferences were filled; the
2014 figure was over 16,400. Additionally, approximately 88,000 e-learning courses were
held in 2013, and 74,000 courses in 2014.
Employees in Germany can select advanced training courses from the wide range on
offer under the WACKER training program. The program categories are Technical Skills,
Management Skills, Social Skills and Personal Skills. Individual jobs determine whether
participation in certain seminars is obligatory. For example, laboratory heads must attend
a seminar tailored to their specific tasks and responsibilities. Prospective engineering
managers and production/operations managers attend a course preparing them for their
new role. Employees also have access to a variety of (advanced) training courses at
WACKER’s international sites. For example, about 1,530 participants completed 3,040
training days at WACKER Greater China in 2014 (2013: 1,460 participants and 3,090
training days). At the US Wacker Chemical Corporation, some 1,200 employees
participated in around 6,600 training days in 2014 (2013: 1,100 employees and 4,600
training days).
WACKER invested €7.0 million in personnel development and advanced training in both
2013 and 2014.

153
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Advanced Training

Advanced Training1
Number of Training Hours per Employee

Standard-payscale employees
Above-standard-payscale employees
1
2

2

2014

2013

2012

12.8

16.1

13.2

21.7

21.8

27.4

Excludes production-specific training. Includes internal and external seminars and advanced training courses.
Figures apply to WACKER Germany.
Third-level management (FK3) and executive personnel (OFK)

154
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Talent Management and Managerial Staff

Talent Management and Managerial Staff
Another focus of our personnel-development activities is identifying and grooming young
management potential. What is more, we continually develop the skills of our current
managerial staff.
2013 marked the launch of a new talent-management process at WACKER. The aim is to
identify and foster talent at an early stage, so that WACKER can fill important positions with
highly-qualified in-house candidates in the medium and long term. The talent-management
process is directed at executive personnel and all other employees above the standard
payscale. The employees’ performance and potential are discussed according to uniform
criteria at conferences held during the annual talent-management cycle. Prior to the
conferences, perspectives are gathered at a management level, from supervisors and
internal customers. The conferences initially take place within a corporate sector (business
division, corporate department or subsidiary) and are subsequently conducted across
corporate sectors. During the annual performance review, employees and supervisors
discuss the strengths and optimization potential identified at the conferences and jointly
determine development measures. This groupwide approach allows us to offer employees
in small units and at subsidiaries prospects, too. In 2014, we rounded out the first cycle
of the talent-management process with the Executive Board conference on succession
planning.
We use a wide range of instruments in developing managerial staff. This ranges from
company-specific, internal group programs, to individual measures, for example coaching
or team development, all the way to outside advanced-training courses.
Selecting Managerial Staff
In addition to the information gleaned from talent management, whenever possible and
suitable, we use various diagnostic techniques to determine the capabilities an employee
already possesses and to identify those which can be developed to enable that individual
to assume a leadership role. These techniques determine the strengths and potential of the
employee, who then receives individualized assistance. For example, standard-payscale
employees who are recommended for or apply for a position as shift leader or certified
industrial foreperson can attend a Potential Analysis Workshop. Above-standard-payscale
employees with an outstanding track record are invited to take part in a Management
Development Center. In 2014, this was superseded by the profiling interview. During
the one-day development workshop, employees participate in various role plays and
determine the focus of their future development (leadership, expertise or project).
Executive Development
Executives are not necessarily born leaders. They must systematically and continually work
on their skills, in order to deal with the varied challenges they encounter. We therefore
offer our employees comprehensive programs adapted to the needs of the respective
target group. Until the end of 2013, this included the First-Level Management seminar for
employees that have assumed management tasks for the first time, and the Advanced
Management seminar for experienced managers. The programs were set up as modules,
and covered the most important areas of expertise: leadership, communication, personality
and an entrepreneurial mindset. Each module explored management from a different
perspective.

155
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Talent Management and Managerial Staff

In 2014, both seminars were superseded by new formats tailored to the participants’
individual requirements. For employees new to management, we developed the mandatory
Start Leading@WACKER and Effective Management 1 courses. Employees with several
years of managerial experience in disciplinary supervision can deepen their knowledge with
the Effective Management 2 seminar.
WACKER encourages internal networks for specialists and managerial staff. These
networks promote knowledge transfer and exchange of information across departmental
boundaries. Examples include the “Neu-Wackerianer” network for new employees and a
network for young female managerial staff who have taken part in a Munich-based crossmentoring program. WACKER has participated in this program since 2005. Our goal is to
help prepare women with management potential for leadership positions, with the aim of
increasing the number of women in top management. This 12-month program involves
an experienced manager acting as mentor to a female mentee at another company. Five
young female managers from WACKER took part in the program in 2013 and 2014.
WACKER’s OFK executives acted as mentors to other companies’ female employees.
Since the program began, a total of 27 young female managers have taken part in the
cross-mentoring program.
Alongside the cross-mentoring program, WACKER introduced an internal mentoring
program in the period under review that is open to both male and female employees.
Here, executives act as mentors to young above-standard-payscale employees. The new
program was well received in 2014 with six tandem mentoring relationships.
All WACKER managerial staff, whatever their level, receive feedback on their management
style when they hold annual performance reviews with their employees.

156
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Demographic Change

Demographic Change
WACKER has been addressing demographic change for many years. The average age of
the Group’s workforce at the 2014 reporting date was 42.6. Employees at non-German
sites are younger (average age: 39.5) than in Germany (43.6). The average age of executive
staff was 52.6. In-house studies have shown that the percentage of employees in Germany
who are over 50 will increase to 38 percent by 2020.
The age structure abroad varies greatly from region to region. Staff at Asian sites are
comparatively young (average age: 34.6), while staff at US locations have an average age
of 47.7. Regional variations in age structure are not exclusive to WACKER; they reflect the
age structures of the populations in each continent and country.

2014 Demographic Analysis of German and International Sites

To maintain our long-term innovative and competitive strength and to acquire and retain
highly qualified employees, we have formulated ten strategic goals. These are:

1. Systematically promote health.
2. Adopt a respectful and appreciative approach to older employees.
3. Expect employees across all age groups to take up offers of vocational training and
to show job flexibility, while providing conditions that encourage them to do so.
4. Secure expertise for the future, and transfer knowledge in a systematic and binding
manner.
5. Develop instruments to manage and regulate the transition to retirement.
6. Orientate compensation to levels of performance and expertise.
7. Maintain and enhance WACKER’s attractiveness for employees.
8. Intensify advertising and recruitment efforts aimed at professions critical to
WACKER’s success.
9. Pursue forward-looking strategies for in-house vocational training.
10. Act as a corporate citizen by fostering scientific and technological interest in youth at
an early age.

157
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Demographic Change

To achieve these goals, we have introduced a number of measures – ranging from
employee health programs through to basic and advanced training. These are intended to
maintain employees’ job flexibility. We are putting increased effort into acquiring talented
and committed young staff. Our Personnel Marketing targets aspiring engineers and
scientists and informs them of career opportunities at WACKER. This revolves around
intensive contacts with universities, e.g. in the form of project-planning courses, site tours
for students, opportunities for internships and providing possible topics for bachelor’s and
master’s degree theses. WACKER also attends job fairs at universities.

158
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity
As a global company, WACKER operates in international markets and multicultural
environments. Holding each employee’s skills and dedication in high regard, we are
convinced that diversity and inclusion enhance our company’s performance. We thus
view human diversity as an asset. We oppose discriminatory or derogatory treatment
on account of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ideology, disability, sexual orientation or
age. These principles are valid across the WACKER Group and, as part of our corporate
culture, are embodied in our Code of Teamwork & Leadership. Employees may report any
discrimination to their supervisors, as well as to a compliance officer, the employee council
or the designated HR contact person. The complaint will be investigated and the reporting
employee will be informed of the results. We do not keep a log of discrimination cases.
We require all employees at our German sites to familiarize themselves with Germany’s
General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) by completing an e-learning course. This course
is compulsory for all levels of corporate hierarchy, from the Executive Board down to
standard-payscale employees, as well as all new employees.
Special arrangements are in place to help and promote WACKER employees who are
disabled. The company’s integration management program provides for close cooperation
between supervisors, employees, HR, disabled-employee representatives and Health
Services to permit disabled employees to remain in their workplace or to change to a
suitable job. This allows us to retain skilled staff, and valuable knowledge acquired over
many years remains with WACKER.
In 2014, the annual average of disabled and equivalent-status employees in Germany was
1,050 (2013: 982). For years, WACKER has employed a higher number of people with
disabilities than required by law (percentage of staff: 2013: 7.4 percent; 2014: 8.1 percent;
legally mandated: 5 percent). Nine out of ten disabled employees at WACKER in Germany
are on the standard payscale. The average age of disabled employees at WACKER is 51.6.
In 2013 and 2014, the Burghausen site took on five disabled young people as trainees.
After having completed their training program successfully, the trainees’ goal is a steady
job at WACKER.
WACKER supports disabled individuals who cannot find work on the general job market,
for example by collaborating with workshops for the disabled. Our Burghausen site,
for instance, sources key products from the charitable Ruperti workshops – such as
dunnage for securing freight, to mounting plates for process engineering, up to packaging
for Siltronic. At the Nünchritz site, we have for many years been using the services of
the disabled workshop “Lebenshilfe Riesa e.V.” (a charity for the mentally disabled) for
landscaping and garden maintenance. An example of cooperation with disabled individuals
in the USA is the Pomona Valley Workshop. Here, the Chino site collaborates with a
neighboring organization that offers jobs to disabled people.

159
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity

More Than Just Gardening
Christoph Theile routinely pulls up weed
after weed from the dry earth and throws
them into the white bucket next to him.
As he does so, Chrissy, as he is known,
jokes with his colleagues, occasionally
stretching his back. “My bones do ache
in the evening sometimes,” admits the
27-year-old. Yet he clearly derives a
great deal of pleasure from working
outdoors once again after the endless
winter months. For ten years now,
Christoph Theile has been part of the
team at “Lebenshilfe Riesa” (a charity for
the disabled), which maintains green
areas at WACKER’s Nünchritz site from
April to October.

Christoph Theile has been maintaining the green areas
at WACKER’s Nünchritz site for ten years.

Under the guidance of Maik Rochel, the disabled men are on site here from Monday to
Friday to keep just under five hectares of land in order. The eight men between the ages
of 20 and 50 have to mow lawns, maintain borders, pull up weeds and cut back trees and
shrubs. Through their work, they contribute to keeping the site’s general appearance
attractive. The men are all professionals and have completed a two-year qualification in
landscape gardening.
“They are proud to be able to work here,” reports Maik Rochel. To work at such a large
plant and join other WACKER employees in the canteen every day is a huge boost to their
self-confidence. A reliable team has been working at WACKER for 18 years now. Maik
Rochel stresses that the “Lebenshilfe” initiative does real work here. The working week
amounts to 37.5 hours, the same as anywhere else at WACKER Germany, and of course
everything is done properly and according to schedule. “Maybe we don’t have the same
time pressures as other companies, some of the men occasionally need a little longer to
get the job done. But they are all highly conscientious and make sure to pull up even the
tiniest trace of a weed,” says Maik Rochel in praise of his team, who also has the backing
of the customer. “There has never yet been any criticism of the work; we’re highly
satisfied,” says Lutz Schurig, who is in charge of partner companies for construction,
winter maintenance, and gardening. “We are aware that these are disabled people and
are happy to provide them with work here,” emphasizes the WACKER employee. There
has also been lots of positive feedback from other colleagues, confirming that the
cooperation is open and unprejudiced.

160
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity

Disabled Employees
2014

2013

2012

649

660

667

Actual workplaces (annual average)

1050

982

921

Ratio of actual to mandatory workplaces (annual
average, %)

161.8

148.8

138.1

8.1

7.4

7.3

0

0

0

Mandatory workplaces (annual average)

Disabled employees as a percentage of total
employees, WACKER Germany
Compensatory levy (€ thousand)

Over the past few years, WACKER has become more international. The company sells
products in 130 countries around the globe, and most of our sales – 86 percent in 2014
– are generated outside Germany. It follows that we want our management to reflect
the global nature of our business. Over recent years, WACKER has increasingly filled
leadership positions in its regions with local employees rather than with executives sent
there on assignment. The prime criterion for filling executive positions remains qualification.
In Germany, the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) forbids the selection of personnel
according to origin. In the other WACKER regions, such as China and the USA, we also
select candidates primarily by qualification.
At the end of 2014, 44 of a total of 192 executive personnel (OFK) were of non-German
nationality groupwide – this is 23 percent of the total. Overall, 17 different nationalities were
represented at the executive level. Our company’s workforce includes people from over 60
nations.
It goes without saying that we offer equality of opportunity to all employees, regardless
of their gender. This approach also applies to compensation. Whether on the standard
payscale, in third-level management (FK3) or among the executive group – men and
women who hold the same positions are paid the same. Statistical differences in the
average annual salaries of individual employee groups are essentially based on seniority,
professional experience and the proportion of women in the various occupations. On
average, the differences are less than 5 percent in each case.
WACKER would like to increase the number of female executives. For this purpose, we
participate in Munich’s Cross-Mentoring Program. To get girls interested in jobs such as
chemical technician, industrial mechanic or electronics specialist, we take part in the Girls’
Day event held throughout Germany.
We have set the goal of significantly increasing the proportion of women in middle and
senior management positions over the medium to long term. One of the goals of our Talent
Management project, which took off in 2013, is to make female management potential
visible and to assist these women in their next career step. With its wide range of different
working-time models, our lifecycle-oriented personnel policy provides the appropriate
framework. In accordance with legal requirements – such as German legislation on equal
participation of women and men in management positions in the private sector and
public service – WACKER will introduce target values for the proportion of women in top
management.

161
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity

Equal Opportunity
2014

2013

2012

16,703

16,009

16,292

3,790

3,581

3,597

22.7

22.4

22.1

12,366

12,322

12,635

1,456

1,412

1,486

11.8

11.5

11.8

3,691

3,504

3,423

Thereof female

879

806

752

Women in third-level management,
groupwide (%)

23.9

23.0

22.0

Executive personnel (OFK), groupwide

197

197

205

11

13

15

5.6

6.6

7.3

Employees, groupwide
Thereof female
Female employees, groupwide (%)
Employees, WACKER Germany
Thereof non-German
Non-German employees at WACKER
Germany (%)
Third-level management employees (FK3),
groupwide

Thereof female
Women as executive personnel, groupwide (%)

162
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Work / Life Balance

Work / Life Balance
WACKER is dedicated to helping its employees to successfully integrate their careers and
private lives. Our company has a wide range of flextime models, even including a selfregulated system based on trust. Wherever possible, we offer both full-time and part-time
jobs. In individual cases, WACKER enables employees to work from home (an option that
may be combined with part-time work), and authorizes unpaid leave for urgent personal
matters.

Part-Time Employees
2014

2013

20121

1,158

1,285

1,194

Thereof female

796

840

791

Thereof male

362

445

403

Part-time employees, WACKER Germany (%)

9.4

10.4

9.4

1,058

1,100

900

556

749

573

Part-time employees, WACKER Germany

Employees in phased early retirement
Thereof in non-active phase
1

As of 2012, employees with 96 % of full-time work hours are also included in the calculation.

Since 2014, WACKER has been offering its employees options for organizing their working
time in a more personalized way than in the past. Employees now have access to a variety
of leave options and part-time models for personal situations, such as providing care
for family members with serious health conditions, pursuing further education or taking a
sabbatical. Unpaid leave can be taken up to a maximum period of two years. The new
arrangements are provided for in the “Working Life and Demography” collective-bargaining
agreement and offer employees a wide range of options for balancing the demands of their
careers and the different stages of their lives.

Leave-Of-Absence Options Used by Employees1
2014

2013

2012

39

−

−

6

−

−

2

−

−

47

−

−

Sabbaticals2
Qualifications
Care

3

4

Total
1
2
3
4

Introduced in 2014, WACKER Germany
Sabbatical for personal reasons
Advanced training either part-time alongside work or full-time
Leave to provide care for a family member with a serious health condition

163
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Work / Life Balance

WACKER was one of the first companies to sign a joint declaration on Germany’s “Family
as a Success Factor” business network, which has its origins in an initiative launched by
the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs and the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce.
In the declaration, WACKER commits itself to taking into account the needs of employees
with family obligations and to offering suitable support.
We support childcare and the return to work after parental leave. One example is the
return-to-work workshop at the Burghausen site. Day care and after-school care facilities
are available at the Wöhler-Kinderhaus, located very close to the plant. A local day-care
center offers a fixed number of day-care slots to employees at the Siltronic site in Freiberg,
Saxony. At the Munich site, pme Familienservice GmbH helps employees find kindergarten
and preschool places.
At all its German sites, WACKER offers a service for family emergencies. Whether
employees themselves or family members fall ill or need nursing care, advice can be
obtained from pme Familienservice GmbH.

Employees on Parental Leave, WACKER Germany
2014

2013

2012

Parental leave

446

456

410

Thereof men

203

220

196

Thereof women

243

236

214

291

278

226

193

198

161

98

80

65

265

217

223

191

155

119

74

62

104

Returnees from parental leave
Thereof men
Thereof women
Returnees from parental leave who were still
working for the company 12 months later
Thereof men
Thereof women

164
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Work / Life Balance

Part-Time Manager
WACKER’s decision to build a new
polysilicon plant (Poly 11) in the US in
2010 was not only the biggest
investment decision ever made at the
company, it was followed by the largest
wave of international assignments in the
company’s history. Since then, almost
120 German employees, from project
engineers to the future site manager,
have been deployed to Charleston,
Tennessee, and more will follow when
the site goes into operation in 2015.
Conversely, the first of around 200 new
American staff members arrived in
Burghausen, where, as chemical
Striking the right balance between work and life:
Michaela Brumme.
technicians, they learned the craft of
polysilicon production. For Michaela
Brumme, manager of International
Assignments for the HR department, and her team, it heralded a highly work-intensive
period.
Getting the mammoth Poly 11 project underway was only one of Michaela Brumme’s
responsibilities. She also has two children, who are now nine and eleven. During the early
months when the heat was really on, her two daughters would barely be tucked up in bed
at 8 o’clock and she’d be back at her laptop again. In fact, having to conduct conference
calls with the US meant that, due to the time difference, working into the night actually
suited her. Michaela Brumme and her team handle the details of each and every
assignment. These include: offering support and advice to employees, taxes, social
security, work permits, cost allocation between the individual subsidiaries, assignment
conditions and much more.
Now that work relating to the Poly 11 project has subsided somewhat, Michaela Brumme
has reduced her working hours slightly, from five to four days a week; she once again is
working the same number of hours as at the beginning of her WACKER career. Working
at 80 percent, she ranks among a number of managerial employees who work part time.
“It works, because I have a great team around me here and we can really rely on one
another,” she explains. Her co-workers are almost all young women, who know that they
might one day find themselves in the same situation as their department manager. But this
method of management requires more than cooperative and reliable teammates in one’s
professional life. Women also need a partner with whom they can share the childcare,
says Michaela Brumme.

165
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compensation and Social Benefits

Compensation and Social Benefits
In addition to their fixed base salary (which includes vacation and Christmas bonuses),
WACKER employees usually also receive some variable compensation – a voluntary
payment to employees on both the standard and above-standard payscales. It consists of
a profit-sharing amount and a personal-performance component.
The Group’s business performance precluded any payment of a profit share to employees
in Germany in 2013 and 2014. The performance bonus and salary increases usually
awarded to employees on above-standard payscales for value retention purposes were
also suspended in 2013. The portion of variable compensation coupled to personal
performance for 2012 was paid out in 2014. In 2013, the Executive Board and executive
personnel contributed by forgoing 10 percent of their fixed monthly salaries from March
through November. Half of this contribution was paid back to executive personnel in 2014.
In celebration of the Group’s centennial, all WACKER employees received a bonus payment
in 2014.
IG BCE (the German mining, chemicals and energy labor union) and chemical-industry
employers agreed on a new 14-month collective-bargaining agreement in February 2014.
The standard payscale increased by 3.7 percent. WACKER raised the minimum salarybracket values for above-standard-payscale employees by 4 percent in 2014.
Other important aspects, alongside salaries, include the company’s social-insurance
contributions. Based on what competitors offer and based on local market conditions,
these benefits include supplementary sick pay, subsidized company restaurants, and our
company cars.
A WACKER company pension is an important compensation component and is available
at most of our German and non-German sites – except for regions where the statutory
pension appears sufficient or legal provisions are inadequate.
In Germany, the WACKER company pension has two components: the basic pension
and a supplementary pension. The basic company pension supplements the statutory
pension. In taxation terms, the supplementary company pension positively impacts that
proportion of the salary which exceeds the upper limit for the statutory pension and
the basic company pension. In addition, employees have the opportunity to enlist in a
private plan that minimizes their tax burden while saving for retirement. WACKER matches
supplementary contributions as provided for by the collective wage agreements. For
the base amount, employees receive a 28-percent match called “Chemieförderung I”;
additional contributions receive the 13-percent “Chemieförderung II” match.
Wacker Chemie AG’s pension fund – Pensionskasse der Wacker Chemie VVaG (a mutual
insurance company) – provides a company pension to employees in Germany. The fund
has some 17,000 members and provides pension payments to around 7,700 retirees. The
average pension paid in the period under review was €635 per month. WACKER paid in
up to four times its employees’ annual pension contributions, with the exact amount being
determined by the individual contribution rate.

166
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compensation and Social Benefits

The WACKER pension fund again achieved good results during the 2013-2014 period.
Fund assets grew by €116 million to approximately €1.8 billion in 2013, and in 2014,
by another €150 million to around €1.96 billion. Despite the difficult capital-market
environment, the WACKER pension fund achieved a book-value return of 4.5 percent in
2013, and in 2014, 4.3 percent. The fund has prepared itself well for the coming years
with a broad investment portfolio, security mechanisms and continual risk evaluation. The
fund also passed all the stress tests required by Germany’s Financial Supervisory Authority
(BaFin).

Company Pensions

Average monthly company pension (€)
Total expenses for pensions and pension-related
benefits (€ thousand)

2014

2013

2012

635

630

630

51,800

50,600

49,600

Additionally, WACKER contributes to guaranteed minimum incomes in countries without
national mandatory health insurance or pension programs. We make sure that our
compensation and social benefits are fair and competitive worldwide. At the very least,
they correspond to local legislation or industrial codes of practice and, in many cases, they
surpass the local minimum. WACKER Greater China, for example, offers its employees a
host of additional benefits, such as insurance policies or relocation assistance. Lower-paid
employees, too, are in a position to cover their own and their families’ living costs.
WACKER’s part-time and fixed-term employees also receive the full range of social
benefits. However, participation in some benefits and their full payment, e.g. profit-sharing
and the company pension, are dependent on minimum seniority.
Good social benefits, competitive compensation and motivating tasks make WACKER an
attractive employer. This explains our high level of employee loyalty. The average length
of service in Germany (permanent staff) is 18.1 years (2013: 17.3 years). On average,
executive personnel remain at the company for 21 years. The 2014 groupwide employee
turnover rate rose to 4.1 percent (2013: 3.4 percent) and in Germany, it was only
0.8 percent (2013: 0.9 percent). At non-German sites, it was 13.8 percent (2013:
11.9 percent).

167
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compensation and Social Benefits

Employee Turnover Rate 2014
Of
which:

in %

Group Germany International Europe

USA China

Other
Asia countries

Men and Women

4.1

0.8

13.8

6.4

7.0

11.7 23.1

7.0

Men only

3.6

0.8

13.3

7.2

7.9

11.9 20.4

10.2

Women only

5.8

1.2

15.1

3.7

4.9

11.5 30.5

0.0

Employee Turnover Rate 2013
Of
which:

in %

Group Germany International Europe

USA China

Other
Asia countries

Men and Women

3.4

0.9

11.9

5.1

9.1

12.3 18.6

9.8

Men only

3.0

0.9

11.5

4.3 10.0

12.7 15.9

11.0

Women only

4.6

1.1

13.0

7.7

11.6 24.7

7.5

7.1

Employee Turnover Rate 2012
Of
which:

in %

Group Germany International Europe

USA China

Other
Asia countries

Men and Women

7.9

0.9

30.8

6.1 25.9

13.3 56.0

17.6

Men only

7.8

0.9

33.1

6.4 27.0

14.7 60.5

15.3

Women only

8.3

0.9

25.2

5.0 23.1

10.8 44.1

22.2

WACKER holds a regular celebration to honor its employees who have been with the
company for many years. In 2014 alone, 467 employees based in Germany were
recognized for 25 or 40 years of service, respectively.
As viewed by its own managerial employees, WACKER was once again one of the most
popular chemical-sector employers in Germany in 2014. In the annual satisfaction survey
(available in German only) conducted by Germany’s Association of Chemical-Industry
Executives (VAA), the members gave WACKER a grade of 3.01 – slightly below the
2013 figure (2.80). On average, the 23 chemical, pharmaceutical and medical-technology
companies participating in the survey scored 3.2 on a scale of 1 to 6, where 1 is the highest
grade. In terms of its overall ranking, WACKER fell from sixth place in 2013 to twelfth place.
Experience shows that these results correlate with the company’s financial success.

168
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Compensation and Social Benefits

China is another country where
WACKER ranks among the best
employers. China’s leading HR
solutions provider is 51job. It
considered WACKER Greater China to
be among the 100 best companies for
HR management in 2013 and 2014. 51job’s rating of companies included topics such as
HR strategy, growth plans, talent acquisition, training programs, social commitments and
employer reputation.
WACKER participates in the Fair Company initiative and thus proves to be a responsible
and fair training company for university students, too. In the annual survey conducted
by the German online recruitment and career guidance specialist ABSOLVENTA, Wacker
Chemie AG took third place in the “Employer Quality” category. The over 7,500 interns who
participated gave WACKER an average rating of 4.62 on a scale of 1 (dissatisfied) to 5 (very
satisfied). WACKER emerged as the winner in the “Pharmaceutical/Medical Technology/
Chemical” category. A 2014 survey by Universum, a specialist Employer Branding
consultancy, identified WACKER Germany as one of the most attractive employers for
science students.

169
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Employee Representation

Employee Representation
WACKER works with the employee representatives in a spirit of cooperation and trust.
Industrial union membership has always been high among WACKER employees, especially
at the German sites. However, employees are under no obligation to inform their employer
of any union membership, and the employer is not permitted to ask. We therefore do not
know how many union members there are at WACKER. Approximately 90 percent of our
employees worldwide work in organizational units that have employee representation and
are subject to collective-bargaining regulations.
WACKER employment contracts treat staff based in Germany – regardless of their union
membership – as if they were covered by the respective applicable collective-bargaining
agreement. WACKER employees at sites outside Germany can also form unions. At nonGerman sites without (statutory or voluntary) employee representation, HR staff members
are the contacts for employee interests.

170
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Health Management

Health Management
The health of our workforce is very important to us. That’s why one of our corporate goals
is to protect it. But our care for our employees goes much further than that. Demographic
change entails longer working lives. We want to help our employees remain healthy and
productive throughout. WACKER has signed the Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace
Health Promotion in the EU. In doing so, we have undertaken to promote health and to
encourage employees to improve their health.
In health management, the focus is on five fields. We seek to avoid spinal disorders
and cardiovascular diseases in our workforce, increase mental resilience, enable ageappropriate work and find suitable jobs for staff with health restrictions.
Two of the most important strategic instruments for ensuring occupational health and
safety are medical checkups and health-promotion programs. Health Services at our
Burghausen site advises employees in all health matters, particularly concerning availability
for work and reintegration. Risk groups like diabetics, employees with back problems or
psychological problems receive in-depth care and are thus kept fit for work in the long
term. The construction of the new health building in Burghausen was completed in 2014.
This means we have a modern, efficient infrastructure for providing occupational and acute
medical care to about 10,000 employees.
Since 2012, we have been offering preventive checkups to management-level 3 (“FK3”)
employees over 45 years of age at all locations in Germany. In addition to organ
examinations, the FK3 checkups also focus on giving employees advice on how to deal
better with mental stress situations. The offer is being very well received: in 2014,
87 percent of the relevant managerial employees took part in the checkups.
Our Health Services surveyed the Group’s management employees and executive
personnel in Germany on mental and social stress. Applying a standardized, internationally
recognized surveying method, we wanted to identify potential sources of stress and their
consequences, as well as recommended courses of remedial action. The survey showed
that, compared with a representative reference group, managerial employees at WACKER
see themselves as being subjected to higher quantitative and emotional demands. These
types of stress are, however, offset by a substantial range of flexibility in their own work
areas.

171
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Health Programs

Health Programs
WACKER emphasizes the importance of informing its employees of health hazards. We
regularly organize health campaigns on various topics. In 2014, for example, we held
groupwide events on the subject of back health. At WACKER, back problems are the
leading cause of sick days and limitations at the workplace. Under the motto “Mind your
back. Stay active.” employees learned basic rules for setting up an ergonomically sound
PC work station and found out about preventative measures.
Additionally, employees are offered fitness classes if suitable facilities are available at
their site. The health-promotion programs include addiction-prevention seminars and back
training. WACKER also encourages employees to participate in inter-company running
events.
An influenza vaccination is offered once a year for all employees, at all sites around the
world. This vaccination is free of charge and voluntary.
WACKER promotes substance abuse prevention. In general, alcohol is forbidden at work.
All managerial staff members are required to attend training programs on the topic of
substance abuse prevention. These programs aim to help them recognize employees who
are at risk or are already addicted, and to assist them in seeking proper treatment. We also
provide management with courses on detecting employees suffering from psychological
stress and on alleviating the problem.
Since 2014, Health Services is offering the Mental Health Toolbox on the intranet. It
is designed to help employees and managers stay in sound mental health despite the
demands of day-to-day working life. To this end, the Toolbox contains information on
various topics concerning mental health (Tool 1), backed up by DIY tests, specific forms
of practical help (Tool 2) and information about support options available at WACKER and
from outside bodies (Tool 3).
In 2013, we launched the “Fit for Your Shift” project together with the South German branch
of the statutory pension insurance system (Deutsche Rentenversicherung Süd). We turned
it into a long-term collaboration in 2014. In this health program, which is tailored specifically
to shift workers, participants are taught habits that can help them deal better with the
pressures of shift work in the long term. The program consists of four modules: a one-week
stay at a rehabilitation clinic, a three-month program of training at the workplace, a sixmonth period during which workers continue the training on their own, and a final refresher
weekend. Evaluation of the program in the period under review showed that it significantly
reduced risk factors such as body weight and body mass index (BMI) and improved the
participants’ training level and the quality of their sleep. The European Chemical Industry
Council CEFIC honored “Fit for Your Shift” with a special commendation as part of the
European Responsible Care Awards 2014 competition.

172
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Pandemic-Preparedness Plan

Sickness Rate
%

Sickness Rate
1

1

2014

2013

2012

5.2

5.2

4.8

Days lost through illness / target working time in days × 100; WACKER Germany

The number of recognized occupational diseases is very low at WACKER’s German sites.
Respiratory diseases and cancer are the most frequent causes of illness; there are some
isolated cases where previous exposure to asbestos or benzene has caused occupational
diseases. Suspected cases of occupational diseases, which WACKER evaluated for the
first time in 2013 for its German sites, also center on these diseases. So far, WACKER
has not evaluated groupwide figures concerning occupational diseases of its employees,
because the criteria for the recognition of illnesses as occupational vary from country to
country.

Occupational Diseases1

Suspected cases
Recognized cases
1
2

2

2014

2013

2012

10

9

−

4

5

6

WACKER Germany
Recognized by the Berufsgenossenschaft Rohstoffe und chemische Industrie (the statutory employer liability
insurance carrier of the German basic materials and chemical industries)

Pandemic-Preparedness Plan
WACKER has maintained a pandemic-preparedness plan since 2005 to minimize health
risks and business disruption in the event of a crisis. The plan defines how and when
a central management team should coordinate all emergency-response measures
worldwide. It includes regulations on how to deal with employees who have fallen ill or
have been exposed, as well as guidelines on business trips to affected regions, and
rules concerning site-specific access checks. WACKER has a supply of influenza drugs
and special equipment (such as face masks, gloves and disinfectants) to hand out to
employees in the event of a pandemic.

173
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Society
176 Donations & Sponsorship
179 Neighbors
181 Schools
183 Universities
185 Politics and NGOs
186 Children
186 Disaster Aid

In Sri Lanka, WACKER’s relief fund finances an entire
school attended by about 200 students up to the
tenth grade – covering the teachers’ salaries,
teaching materials, school uniforms and subsidized
lunches. For some children, attending school in
Kosgoda involves a long journey every day.

Donations and Sponsorship

Donations and Sponsorship
Donations

Companies can only enjoy economic success if they are trusted by society, which is
why we take our social responsibilities seriously, especially in communities near our sites.
Training young people in the natural sciences is especially important to us, because we will
need dedicated scientists and engineers if we are to remain competitive. Charitable and
outreach projects to help children and young people represent another pillar of our social
commitment, while the WACKER relief fund (WACKER HILFSFONDS) provides support to
victims of natural disasters and helps rebuild devastated regions. As part of our social
commitment, we seek enduring partnerships, focusing our investments preferably on longterm projects.

WACKER’s Donations and Sponsorships
€ thousand

2014

2013

2012

Donations

851

925

891

3

6

3

Of which political donations
Sponsorships

3,339

964

1,135

Total

4,190

1,889

2,026

0.09

0.04

0.04

Share of sales (%)

WACKER’s Donations and Sponsorships – 2014

176
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Donations and Sponsorship

WACKER’s Donations and Sponsorships – 2013

We donated roughly €925,000 in 2013, over half of which went to the SV Wacker
Burghausen athletic association (which supports popular sports) and to WACKER’s relief
fund (WACKER HILFSFONDS). In 2014, our donations came to roughly €851,000, with
€3,000 of this going to political institutions (2013: €6,000).
Our sponsorship activities focus on education, science and the SV Wacker Burghausen
professional soccer team. Sponsorship expenses came to roughly €964,000 in 2013 and
€3.3 million in 2014. This increase is due largely to having extended sponsorship of the
Institute of Silicon Chemistry at the Technical University of Munich (see Universities).

WACKER Supports Training Program for the Long-Term Unemployed
Long-term unemployed and sick – so no
chance of a job? Not where Weisser
Rabe is concerned: the Caritas affiliate
gives unemployed people with
disabilities a new chance to determine
their own lives. The organization has set
up two new vocational training programs
for production and warehouse helpers at
its Munich recycling business. WACKER
Executive Board member Dr. Tobias
Ohler presented Weisser Rabe with a
€10,000 donation check in 2013.
WACKER has already had positive
Executive Board member Dr. Tobias Ohler presented a
experiences with this Munich recycling
check for €10,000 to Johanna Schilling, managing
business, which is where the
director of Weisser Rabe.
Consortium, the Group’s central R&D
facility, disposes of its old electrical
equipment. At its 11 businesses in Munich and Rosenheim, Weisser Rabe delivers
vocational training to some 400 long-term unemployed people who, for the most part,
have physical or mental problems. “If we can give the people here a perspective through
new training opportunities, we will be really delighted,” said Dr. Ohler.

177
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Donations and Sponsorship

Taxes represent a significant way in which WACKER contributes to society, with
€184.7 million in current taxes going to governments throughout the world in 2014 (2013:
€37.9 million). For many years, WACKER has been the largest business taxpayer in
Burghausen and Nünchritz, the locations of our two biggest German sites.
In addition to WACKER’s corporate taxes, governments also receive the personal taxes
and social-security contributions paid by our employees.

178
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Neighbors

Neighbors
WACKER sees itself as a corporate citizen, and corporate citizenship begins with a good
relationship with one’s neighbors. For WACKER that means being open about what goes
on behind the plant gates. With hotlines and central contact persons available, residents
living near our sites around the world can turn to us with their concerns and receive
fast, clear answers to their questions. We inform the public about our sites through
environmental reports and other publications, and through open houses and events such
as our environmental fair at Burghausen and our annual neighborhood discussions at
Nünchritz.
WACKER participated in the German chemical industry’s nationwide open house in 2014,
opening the gates of four of its German sites to visitors. This also served as an opportunity
for WACKER to celebrate the company’s centenary together with employees and their
families, members of the community, and other guests at Burghausen, Nünchritz, Freiberg
and Cologne. Some 27,000 interested individuals accepted the invitation. To celebrate
its 50th anniversary, Wacker Chemical Corp. in Adrian, USA, held an open house, which
attracted 1,100 visitors. On World Environment Day, WACKER Greater China opened the
gates of its Zhangjiagang and Nanjing sites, offering visitors an opportunity to learn about
environmental protection at the company.
We assess the effects of our business activities on our surroundings both on an ongoing
basis and prior to making investment decisions. The assessment process includes
analyses of parameters such as anticipated emissions, the regional infrastructure and
impacts on the local job market.
WACKER POLYMERS in Allentown, Pennsylvania (USA) has been cooperating with Habitat
for Humanity of the Lehigh Valley since 2010. This non-profit organization renovates or
builds modestly priced houses that are sold to needy families who benefit from loans at
favorable interest rates. In turn, these loans are transferred to a fund that is used to build
further Habitat houses. WACKER POLYMERS supports Habitat for Humanity by providing
both funding and volunteers to help with painting, finishing and tiling. Between 2013 and
2014, employees and WACKER POLYMERS made donations of more than $40,000 to
Habitat. Employees mainly helped in building and extending a second-hand store that sells
donated goods on Habitat’s behalf.
In 2014, the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) honored three German
companies for outstanding site communications projects. WACKER’s Burghausen site took
second place with its “Get to Know and Trust WACKER” project. The largest of WACKER’s
sites operates a systematic communications program addressed to the company’s
neighbors, regional political bodies and non-governmental organizations. WACKER
approaches these parties specifically and personally invites them to the site to meet with
its key personnel. Direct contact with employees in senior management positions, coupled
with in-depth, technical information, go a long way toward developing trust in the company.
Procuring goods and services from local suppliers is another important way in which
WACKER supports neighboring communities. We purchase over 90 percent of our
technical goods and services in the country for which they are intended. Our two biggest
sites are good examples of this regional supply-chain system:

179
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Neighbors

Burghausen, Bavaria
In 2014, the site procured 20 percent (€164 million) of its technical goods and services
from local suppliers (2013: 18 percent = €145 million). Another quarter came from
suppliers in other parts of Bavaria. WACKER’s Burghausen site is part of the Bavarian
Chemical Triangle – an area also known as ChemDelta Bavaria – which is home to
companies employing some 20,000 people and securing a further 50,000 jobs in the
region.
Nünchritz, Saxony
The plant, located in the state of Saxony in eastern Germany, sourced 19 percent of
its supplies and services from the surrounding region in 2014 (up from 18 percent
in 2013). An additional 3 percent of its suppliers were from other eastern German
states (5 percent in 2013). In total, these services from Saxony were valued at roughly
€86 million (2013: €81 million)

Regional Procurement
2014

2013

2012

91

92

96

96

99

90

USA

96

94

90

Other countries3

65

57

80

Group

91

91

93

Share of regionally procured1 technical goods and
services (%)
Germany
Greater China

1
2
3

2

Suppliers from the respective country
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan
India, Norway and Asia (not including Greater China)

180
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Schools

Schools
WACKER wants children to be excited about technology and the natural sciences. After all,
as a chemical company, we are going to need outstanding scientists in the future – a goal
we are pursuing in a variety of ways.
WACKER supports progressive teaching methods and modern school management
systems. Our Group is one of the founding members of the Bavarian Educational Pact, a
foundation comprising 143 companies that has joined the state of Bavaria in sponsoring
various projects at public schools. The aim of all of these projects is to modernize the
Bavarian educational system.
Examine, experiment, explore − and acquire a critical educational foundation in the
process. WACKER’s new experimental kit for schools, CHEM2DO fulfills this criterion. The
company officially presented the kit to the Bavarian Ministry for Education and Culture in
2013. Designed for junior and senior high school students, the kit contains a total of eight
experiments involving silicones and cyclodextrins. Chemistry teachers who want to do the
experiments in class receive training at teacher-training centers run throughout Germany
by the Society of German Chemists and at select universities. The kit is supplied to schools
free of charge. WACKER hopes that the kit will spark an interest in chemistry among young
people and provide chemistry teachers with teaching aids featuring innovative materials.
Because one in eight employees at the Burghausen site is from nearby Austria, WACKER
has also been working with the Association of Austrian Chemistry Teachers (Verband der
Chemielehrer Österreichs, VCÖ) to provide training for CHEM2DO. This partnership began
in 2013. Also during the period under review, WACKER revised the content of three silicone
experiments in the kit to meet the specific needs of Bavarian secondary vocational schools.
The aim here was to make chemistry a more tangible component of the combined Physics,
Chemistry and Biology (PCB) course offered at these schools.
Beginning in 2014, teachers who use CHEM2DO at locations near our sites can invite
a trained company employee to visit their schools. These WACKER ambassadors assist
teachers, help students with their experiments and talk about their day-to-day work. In this
way, the school ambassador program does more than just provide two helping hands – it
also conveys a passion for experimenting.
Undersecretary Bernd Sibler (right) and WACKER
Executive Board member Dr. Tobias Ohler
conducted a joint experiment when the
CHEM2DO experiment kit was presented to
Bavaria’s Ministry of Education and Cultural
Affairs.

181
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Schools

WACKER supports Science-Lab, a private-sector educational initiative that awakens
children’s interest in science at an early age (Science-Lab website available in German
only). At our sites in Germany, we finance one-day Science Lab training seminars for
preschool and elementary school teachers, and provide a discovery box – a tool that
teaches children biology, chemistry, physics, astronomy and the earth sciences in a childfriendly way. During the period under review, WACKER financed Science Lab experiment
fairs in Burghausen for children during the summer vacation.
In 2014 we took the helm as statewide sponsor and organizer of the “Young Scientists”
competition in Bavaria for the ninth time (German-language website only). We also again
sponsored the Dresden/East Saxony Young Scientists Regional Competition (Germanlanguage website only). In 1998, WACKER began its involvement in Europe’s largest
competition for young people in the natural sciences, mathematics and technology.
All WACKER sites help young people prepare for a profession. At career days and student
workshops, our employees introduce high-school students to jobs in the chemical industry
and teach them practical skills. The following are a few examples from the period under
review:
Nünchritz High School organizes Class 21 each year in collaboration with WACKER’s
Nünchritz plant and the Anerkannte Schulgesellschaft, a private education company
in Saxony. This multi-disciplinary project allows seventh graders to try out different
jobs, learning about a range of different professions – such as chemist, environmental
researcher or fire safety expert – over the course of a week.
WACKER provides the Liangfeng Senior High School in Zhangjiagang with funding for
25 students and six teachers who distinguish themselves through outstanding academic
achievements. In particular, the WACKER scholarship provides financial support for
students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Additionally, WACKER experts share their
know-how at the high school by giving specialized classroom instruction on industrial
silicone applications.
In 2014, the WACKER HELP employee initiative provided financial support for 29
children from disadvantaged families in Fujia, a village in the Sichuan province of
central China. In addition, WACKER Greater China’s regional relief organization has been
providing free hot lunches to students at WACKER Primary School in Fujia since 2011.
Girls’ Day: WACKER’s Burghausen Vocational Training Center (BBiW) participates in
this nationwide career information fair every year. Girls attending the event learn about
careers as industrial mechanics, electrical maintenance and automation technicians, and
chemical technicians.

182
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Universities

Universities
WACKER attaches considerable importance to fostering young scientific talent and
maintaining close contacts with universities. In 2013 and 2014, we sponsored some 320
final thesis projects and internships with students at over 50 universities internationally.
In addition, Wacker Chemie AG and the Technische Universität München (TUM) extended
their existing partnership in silicon research for another six years, with the TUM and
WACKER agreeing to this in writing in February 2014. We are sponsoring the Institute of
Silicon Chemistry, located on the Garching research campus near Munich, with a total of
up to €2.5 million, a sum that will finance doctoral positions and the associated material
resources.
WACKER and TUM founded the Institute of Silicon Chemistry in 2006. In recent years,
more than 30 research projects have been conducted here, resulting in ten patents and
over 35 scientific publications. In the seventh and eighth years since the Institute of Silicon
Chemistry was founded at the TUM, we also sponsored 16 students (bringing the grand
total to over 50 students since the Institute’s inception). Ten of our students completed
their doctoral theses in 2013/2014 (the Institute has produced a total of 30 doctoral theses
since its founding). Two new graduates joined WACKER during the period under review to
pursue careers in R&D.

The winner of the 2014 WACKER Silicone
Award, Professor Akira Sekiguchi. The
62-year-old scientist teaches organic
chemistry at the University of Tsukuba,
Japan.

In 2014, WACKER partnered with the Technische Universität Berlin to organize an
international scientific convention. The 17th International Symposium on Silicon Chemistry
(ISOS XVII) and the jointly organized 7th European Silicon Days attracted some 600
researchers from the field of silicon and silicone chemistry to Berlin. During the convention,
WACKER presented, for the 15th time, the WACKER Silicone Award for outstanding
achievements in this area of research. The winner this time was Akira Sekiguchi, a
professor of organic chemistry at the University of Tsukuba in Japan.
Chattanooga State Community College was honored with the prestigious 2013 Bellwether
prize – awarded for leading community colleges into the future – at the Community College
FUTURES Assembly’s annual meeting. The college received the award in the “Workforce
Development” category for its “WACKER INSTITUTE: Diplomas with Job Offers” project,
which set an example for similar institutions. With WACKER POLYSILICON North America,
the institute has been training employees for the Group’s new polysilicon production facility
in Charleston, Tennessee since February 2012. This WACKER production site is scheduled
to start operating in the second half of 2015.

183
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Universities

In 2013, WACKER Greater China organized a competition for universities. 185 students
from three Chinese universities took part in the Chemical University Contest. During the
final round of this multistage competition, eight student projects were presented and
given distinctions. The contest aimed at promoting knowledge about WACKER products
among future construction-industry managers, intensifying cooperation with universities,
and attracting the next generation of specialists directly from universities. During the
reporting period, WACKER Greater China also awarded grants totaling some RMB 90,000
(€13,000) to students at the Nanjing Forest University and Wuxi Jiangnan University.

WACKER Takes Part in German Scholarship Program
WACKER has participated in the
German Scholarship Program sponsored
by the Federal Ministry of Education and
Research (BMBF) since 2013. The
scholarship program provides students
with a monthly stipend of €300, half of
which is contributed by the Federal
Government and half by private donors
(companies, individuals). Jasmin Haberl,
a chemistry student at the TUM, was the
first student that WACKER supported
under the Germany Scholarship
Program.
Presenting the certificate at the TUM: WACKER’s
Markus Huber and Ina Korsinek (right) from Personnel
Marketing and scholarship student Jasmin Haberl
(center).

“For us, the Germany Scholarship
Program is an excellent opportunity to
support highly motivated young people
and to advertise our company as a future employer to the best students of their subject
areas,” said Markus Huber from WACKER’s Personnel Marketing team – both sides, in
other words, profit equally from this partnership.

The national scholarship helps support students whose background presages great
academic and career achievements. The performance concept underlying the scholarship
has deliberately been given a broad scope, taking account of not only good grades and
academic performance, but also willingness to take on responsibility, or success at
overcoming hurdles in personal life or academic career.

184
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Politics and Non-Governmental Organizations

Politics and Non-Governmental Organizations
In accordance with our code of conduct, we are committed to responsibility and integrity
– including in our dealings with political parties and non-governmental organizations. We
represent our political interests in a way that is consistent with the positions we have
expressed publicly. In our work with political entities, we focus on concrete issues and are
open to dialog with any democratic parties.
WACKER takes an active role in trying to influence energy policies. During the period under
review, we made the following contributions to political opinion:
We support Germany’s transition to renewable energy, especially the cost-efficient
expansion of solar and wind energy as mainstays of Germany’s future energy mix, and
the climate-friendly use of combined heat and power plants.
As an industrial company with a high energy demand, we need globally competitive
electricity prices and a secure power supply.
We oppose all types of punitive tariffs on solar modules and materials for photovoltaics.
They artificially raise the cost of solar products, reduce solar energy’s competitiveness
and ultimately slow down the worldwide energy transition and climate protection.
Wacker Chemie AG and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) reached an
amicable agreement on the issue of polysilicon exports to China. An agreement to this
end was signed in Beijing in March 2014. WACKER, for its part, undertakes not to sell
polysilicon produced at its European plants below a specific minimum price in China.
MOFCOM, in turn, will refrain from imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on this
material. This agreement took effect on May 1, 2014, and is valid until the end of April 2016.
WACKER maintains a liaison office in Berlin to better represent the company’s political
interests. In addition, we regularly extend invitations to politicians for discussions and tours
at our sites.
National and international associations – especially Europe’s CEFIC (European Chemical
Industry Council), the USA’s ACC (American Chemistry Council) and Germany’s VCI
(Chemical Industry Association) – serve as a platform for our expertise. Working within
these bodies, we examine issues ranging from plant, product and occupational safety
to environmental protection, nanotechnology and industrial (“white”) biotechnology. Our
experts are also active in trade associations such as Deutsche Bauchemie (German
construction-chemicals association), where issues include sustainable construction.
WACKER is a founding member of the ChemDelta Bavaria initiative, which was established
in 2007. Companies in this chemistry research and production triangle want to improve and
expand the region’s economic competitiveness – in harmony with its communities and the
environment. Improving the regional infrastructure is a major focus of ChemDelta Bavaria,
which counts WACKER and its Burghausen site as one of its cornerstones. In addition
to upgrading rail services, the initiative’s infrastructure goals include expanding the A94
freeway between Munich and Passau – a stretch that is currently only partially complete.
During the period under review, ChemDelta Bavaria gave presentations at parliamentary
breakfasts in Munich and Berlin and, for members of the EU parliament in Brussels, as part
of the Bavarian Industry Day.

185
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Children

Children
We attach particular importance to projects that help children and young people. In 2007
we began supporting Die Arche (The Ark; German-language website only), a Munich-based
Christian charity for children and adolescents. The initiative, which works with around
400 children and young people from socially disadvantaged families, including refugee
children, provides children with hot meals and extra tutoring, organizes leisure activities
and offers counseling. WACKER supported The Ark in 2013 and 2014 as well, each time
donating €100,000 to the charity. WACKER’s commitment to The Ark goes beyond financial
contributions – its employees also spend their free time as volunteers at the annual Ark
Summer Festival. The government of Upper Bavaria presented WACKER with its honorary
award for outstanding integration work in 2014, recognizing the company’s sustained
support of the charity.
WACKER’s support for children and young people at a regional level is not limited to the
company’s focus on funding for The Ark. WACKER’s own Burghausen Vocational Training
Center (BBiW) accepted eight unaccompanied adolescent refugees from West and Central
Africa in its youth guest house in 2014. In addition to intensive German lessons to help
them in their new life in Germany, these young people are also taking an integration class at
the Mühldorf vocational school. Their goal here is to obtain the diploma they need in order
to begin vocational training.

Disaster Aid
WACKER HILFSFONDS (WACKER’s relief fund) is dedicated to providing unbureaucratic,
long-term aid, especially in the wake of natural disasters. The fund’s board members and
trustees work on a voluntary basis. So far, Wacker Chemie AG has always matched all
employee contributions to the fund.
In June 2013, Germany experienced devastating floods that caused economic damage
totaling several billion euros. Several WACKER employees were affected by the flooding,
as were social institutions in Austria and in the German states of Saxony and Bavaria.
WACKER’s relief fund appealed to employees to support affected colleagues. Employees
responded in large numbers, donating approximately €52,000, which combined with the
employer contribution amounted to €152,000 of available funding. The foundation paid the
sum out to 20 flood victims.
Introduced in 2012, the company’s cent-donation program has allowed WACKER’s relief
fund to finance an entire 200-student school in Sri Lanka, which welcomed its first senior
class in 2014. Relief fund donations also financed a solar installation. The new roof-top
technology provides the school in Kosgoda with the means to generate its own electricity,
making it independent of shortfalls in the national grid.

186
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Disaster Aid

The over 4,300 employees who participate in the WACKER relief fund cent-donation
program consent to having their monthly salary rounded down to the nearest euro –
the difference in cents is then donated to the relief fund. On average, the participating
employees donate 50 cents per month. This amount is then matched by the company for
a monthly total of over €4,200 and an annual donation of over €50,000.

Thanks a Million!
WACKER’s relief fund reached a
milestone exactly one decade after a
devastating event: a total of precisely
€1,000,161 had been donated to the
relief fund over the ten-year period to
December 31, 2014.
In December 2004, a tsunami laid waste
to vast stretches of land in Asia, with
thousands losing their lives or
livelihoods. WACKER employees
spontaneously donated €100,000, a sum
that the Group matched and then
WACKER’s relief fund has maintained a close
partnership with the school in Kosgoda, Sri Lanka, for
augmented by an additional €50,000.
over ten years.
Together, this made a total of €250,000
available that could be used for aid
projects quickly and with no red tape. This was also when the relief fund was established.
True to the principle of “helping people help themselves,” WACKER’s relief fund has been
supporting programs since 2005 that give victims of natural disasters the chance of a
better life. WACKER’s relief fund is setting a precedent not only in Sri Lanka, but also in
China, Haiti and Pakistan, because the foundation focuses on education for children and
young people in the aftermath of natural catastrophes.

187
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Further Information
190 GRI Indicators		
203 Glossary

Thank you for your interest in our sustainability report.
We are always happy to receive your feedback or
suggestions. Send us your comments directly using
the dialogue functions featured in our online report at
www.wacker.com/sustainabilityreport. Accessible in
English and German, this report offers easy navigation
and interactive functions, such as key-figure
comparisons and download options.

GRI Indicators

GRI Indicators

1. Strategy and Analysis
Degree of
Compliance

1.1

Introduction by the CEO or Supervisory
Board chairman

1.2

Key sustainability impacts, risks and
opportunities

Info

Introduction by the President
& CEO
Goals and Future Topics
Vision and Goals
Environmental Protection
Research and Development
Demographic Change

190
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

2. Organizational Profile
Degree of
Compliance

Info

2.1

Name of the organization

About this Report

2.2

Primary brands, products and services

2.3

Business areas and operational structure

Legal Structure

2.4

Location of organization’s headquarters

Legal Structure

2.5

Countries in which the organization’s major
operations are located

2.6

Nature of ownership

2.7

Markets

2.8

Scale of the reporting organization

2.9

Significant changes during the reporting
period

Key Events 2013 – 2014
New Production Site in
Germany
Key Events Affecting
Business Performance

2.10

Awards received in the reporting period

Dialogue with Stakeholders
Environmental Awards
Compensation and Social
Benefits
Children

Group Structure and
Operations
Key Products and Services

Sales and Production Sites
Group Structure and
Operations
Legal Structure
Shareholder Structure
Group Structure and
Operations
Key Products and Services
Major Markets and
Competitive Positions
KPIs
Group Structure and
Operations
External Sales by Customer
Headquarters
Shareholder Structure
Headcount Trend

191
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

3. Report Parameters
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Report Profile
3.1

Reporting period

About this Report

3.2

Date of most recent previous report

About this Report

3.3

Reporting cycle

About this Report

3.4

Contact for questions regarding the report

Contact

Report Scope and Limitations
3.5

Process for defining report content

About this Report
Dialogue with Stakeholders

3.6

Boundary of the report

About this Report

3.7

Limitations on the scope of the report

About this Report

3.8

Joint Ventures. Tochterunternehmen.
Outsourcing

About this Report

3.9

Data measurement techniques

Controlled Documents and
Controlling Instruments
Environmental Performance
Assessment
Air
Environmental Assessments
Prevention

3.10

Effect of any re-statements of information
provided in earlier reports

Environmental Performance
Assessment
Air

3.11

Changes in the scope and boundary of the
report or in the measurement methods
applied

3.12

GRI index in tabular form with page
numbers

3.13

Assurance: external assurance for the
report

Energy
Air
Prevention
Accidents and Incidents
GRI Indicators
This report has not been
assured by external third
parties.

192
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Governance
4.1

Governance

Management and Supervision
Work in the Committees

4.2

Independence of the Supervisory Board
chairman

Management and Supervision

4.3

Governance body and/or independent
members of management

Management and Supervision

4.4

Mechanisms for shareholders and
employees to provide recommendations to
the Executive Board or Supervisory Board

Management and Supervision
Idea Management
Employee Representation
WACKER Communicates
Closely with Capital Markets
Corporate Governance
Reporting

4.5

Linkage between Executive Board
compensation and the organization’s
performance

4.6

Processes in place for the governance
bodies to ensure avoidance of conflicts of
interest

4.7

Expertise of the governance bodies in
sustainability issues

Management Structures for
Sustainability
Personnel Responsibility
Targets for Supervisory
Board Composition

4.8

Mission statements, corporate values and
codes of conduct

Vision and Goals
Business Principles
Controlled Documents and
Controlling Instruments

4.9

Procedures of the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board for overseeing
sustainability performance

Management Structures for
Sustainability
Personnel Responsibility
Management Systems
Controlled Documents and
Controlling Instruments

4.10

Processes for evaluating the performance
of the Executive Board

Personnel Responsibility
Compensation Report
Compliance
Corporate Governance
Report and Declaration on
Corporate Management

Corporate Governance

Commitments to External Initiatives
4.11

Implementation of the precautionary
principle

Voluntary Commitments
Environmental Protection
Prevention
Risk Management Report

193
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Voluntary Commitments
Air
Product Safety
Work-Life Balance
Politics and NGOs

4.12

Support of external initiatives

4.13

Principal memberships in industry and
business associations

Voluntary Commitments
Dialogue and Awards
Transport Safety
TUIS: Accident Assistance
Politics and NGOs

Stakeholder Engagement
4.14

Stakeholder groups engaged by the
organization

Dialogue with Stakeholders

4.15

Selection of stakeholders

About this Report
Dialogue with Stakeholders

4.16

Approaches to stakeholder engagement
(type/frequency)

Dialogue with Stakeholders
Dialogue and Awards

4.17

Statements on key topics and concerns
raised by stakeholders

Dialogue with Stakeholders

194
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Economic
Management approach

Group Structure and
Operations
Vision and Goals
Neighbors

Aspect: Economic Performance
KPIs
WACKER’s Donations and
Sponsorships
Statement of Income of the
WACKER Group
03 Income Taxes

EC1

Direct economic value generated and
distributed

EC2

Financial implications of climate change

EC3

Company’s defined benefit plan obligations

Compensation and Social
Benefits
13 Provisions for Pensions

EC4

Financial assistance received from
government

iC4
Publicly Funded Research
Projects

EC6

Spending on locally-based suppliers

EC7

Senior management hired from the local
community

EC8

Infrastructure investments and services
provided for public benefit

1

Environmental Protection
Costs
Environmental Performance
Assessment
Energy
Air
The WACKER Group’s
Prospects

Aspect: Market Presence
Customer and Supplier
Management
Regional Procurement
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity

Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts

195
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Logistics and Transport
Neighbors
Schools

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Environmental
Goals & Outlook
[Environmental Protection]
Business Principles
Management Structures for
Sustainability
Management Systems
Controlled Documents and
Controlling Instruments
Compliance
Environmental Protection
Environmental Protection
Costs
Environmental Protection in
Production
Integrated Production
Energy
Air
Sustainable Mobility Strategy
Water
Waste
Nature Conservation and
Biodiversity
Logistics and Transport
Product Stewardship

Management approach

Aspect: Materials
EN1

Materials used by weight or volume

EN2

Percentage of materials used that are
recycled input materials

2

Integrated Production
Waste
Procurement and Logistics
Integrated Production
Waste

Aspect: Energy
EN3

Direct energy consumption by primary
energy sources

Energy Consumption

EN4

Indirect energy consumption by primary
source

Energy Consumption

EN5

Energy savings

Integrated Production
Energy

EN6

Energy-efficient products and services

Product Stewardship

Aspect: Water
EN8

Total water withdrawal by source

Water Consumption Tested
Using the Global Water Tool©

EN9

Water sources significantly affected by
withdrawal of water

Water Consumption Tested
Using the Global Water Tool©

196
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Water Consumption Tested
Using the Global Water Tool©

EN10 Percentage and total volume of water
recycled and reused
Aspect: Biodiversity
EN11 Use of land in protected areas

Nature Conservation and
Biodiversity

EN12 Significant impacts of activities in protected
areas

Nature Conservation and
Biodiversity

EN14 Strategies on protecting biodiversity

Nature Conservation and
Biodiversity

Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste
EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas
emissions

Air

EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions
(e.g. caused by business trips)

Air

EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions

Goals & Outlook
[Environmental Protection]
Integrated Production
Air
Emissions to Air

EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
by weight
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air
emissions by weight

Emission of Air Pollutants

EN21 Water discharge

Water Consumption /
Emissions to Water
Waste

EN22 Waste by type and disposal method
EN23 Releases of hazardous substances by
number and volume

Accidents and Incidents

Aspect: Products and Services
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental
impacts of products and services

iC4 – Electricity on Tap
Product Stewardship

EN27 Percentage of products and packaging that
are reclaimed

3

Waste
Reducing Shipment Routes

Aspect: Compliance
EN28 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

Compliance Cases

Aspect: Transport
EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting

Sustainable Mobility Strategy
Logistics and Transport

Aspect: Overall
EN30 Environmental protection expenditures

197
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Environmental Protection
Costs

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Social Performance
Labor Practices
Goals & Outlook
[Management]
Goals & Outlook [Safety]
Goals & Outlook [Employees]
Business Principles
Management Structures for
Sustainability
Personnel Responsibility
Management Systems
Prevention
Headcount Trend
Personnel Development
Advanced Training
Talent Management and
Managerial Staff
Demographic Change
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity
Employee Representation
Health Management

Management approach

Aspect: Employment
LA1

Total workforce by employment type and
region

LA2

Total employee turnover by age group,
gender, and region

LA3

Benefits provided to full-time employees
only

Headcount Trend
Part-Time Employees
2014 Employee Turnover Rate
– Men and Women
Compensation and Social
Benefits

Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
LA4

Percentage of employees covered by
collective bargaining agreements

LA5

Minimum notice period(s) regarding
significant operational changes

Employee Representation
Headcount Trend
We act according to the
German Works Constitution
Act (BetrVG). It does not
specify a quantified minimum
notice period.

Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
LA7

Injuries, absenteeism and work-related
fatalities

Workplace Accidents Involving
Permanent Staff and
Temporary Workers
Health Programs

198
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

LA8

Info

Fit for Your Shift
Health Management
Health Programs
Pandemic-Preparedness Plan

Risk control and programs with respect to
serious diseases

Aspect: Training and Education
LA10

Hours of training by employee category

Advanced Training

LA11

Skills management and lifelong learning

Advanced Training
Talent Management and
Managerial Staff

LA12

Performance and career development
reviews

Advanced Training
Talent Management and
Managerial Staff

Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
LA13

Composition of senior management and
employee structure
(e.g. age/gender/culture)

2014 Demographic Analysis of
German and International
Sites
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity
Executive Board
Targets for Supervisory
Board Composition

LA14

Compensation by gender and employee
category

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity

Human Rights
Goals & Outlook
[Management]
Business Principles
Voluntary Commitments
Compliance
Customer and Supplier
Management
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity
Employee Representation
Neighbors

Management approach

Aspect: Investment and Procurement
Practices
Customer and Supplier
Management

HR1

Investment agreements that include
human rights clauses or screening

HR2

Percentage of suppliers that have
undergone screening on human rights and
actions taken

199
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

4

Customer and Supplier
Management

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Aspect: Non-Discrimination
HR4

Diversity, Inclusion and Equal
Opportunity

Incidents of discrimination and actions
taken
Aspect: Freedom of Association and
Collective Bargaining

HR5

Operations that may be at significant risk

5

Voluntary Commitments
Employee Representation

6

Business Principles
Voluntary Commitments
Customer and Supplier
Management

7

Business Principles
Voluntary Commitments
Customer and Supplier
Management

Aspect: Child Labor
HR6

Operations with significant risk and
measures taken

Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor
HR7

Operations with significant risk and
measures taken

Society
Management approach

Business Principles
Management Structures for
Sustainability
Personnel Responsibility
Compliance
Donations and Sponsorships
Politics and NGOs

Aspect: Community
SO1

Dialogue and Awards
Donations and Sponsorships
Neighbors

Policy to manage impacts on local
communities
Aspect: Corruption

SO2

Percentage and number of business units
analyzed

SO3

Percentage of employees trained in anticorruption procedures

SO4

Actions taken in response to incidents of
corruption

Compliance Cases
8

Compliance Cases
Compliance

Aspect: Public Policy
SO5

Public policy positions and participation in
public policy development and lobbying

SO6

Total value of financial contributions to
political parties, politicians, etc.

Politics and NGOs
Donations and Sponsorships

200
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

5. Performance Indicators continued
Degree of
Compliance

Info

Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior
SO7

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior

Compliance Cases

Aspect: Compliance
SO8

Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with
laws and regulations

Compliance Cases

Product Responsibility (Product
Stewardship)
Management approach

Goals & Outlook [Products]
Business Principles
Management Structures for
Sustainability
Compliance
Product Safety
Personnel Responsibility

Aspect: Customer Health and Safety
PR1

Product life cycle stages for which health
and safety impacts are assessed

Product Safety

Aspect: Product and Service Labeling
PR3

Principles/procedures related to product
and service information

PR5

Customer satisfaction

Product Safety
Customer and Supplier
Management

Aspect: Marketing Communications
PR6

Product Information

Programs for adherence to laws and
voluntary codes related to marketing
communications
Aspect: Compliance

PR9

Significant fines for non-compliance with
laws and regulations concerning the use of
products and services

Compliance Cases

1 We do not provide information on this aspect, because it is not possible to ascertain data. Apart from being
highly complex, the quantification of such data is subject to factors beyond our control (e.g. pricing trends). We
will thus still be unable to quantify these data in the future.
2 We currently do not report the weight or volume of the materials used, because the data are confidential.
3 We report these data only partially, because the percentage has no bearing on our business and it would be too
complex to collate data.
4 We still do not provide information on the percentage. Having joined the “Together for Sustainability” initiative,
we will be able to assess our 400 main suppliers on this point, among others, by the end of 2016.
5 We do not provide further information on this aspect, because, in general, we give our employees the
opportunity to organize themselves as labor unions.
6 We do not provide further information on this aspect, because our hiring process and the conditions set down in
our groupwide Code of Teamwork & Leadership ensure that no child labor is used.
7 We do not provide further information on this aspect, because our employment process and the conditions set
down in our groupwide Code of Teamwork & Leadership ensure that no forced or compulsory labor is used.
8 We do not provide information on this aspect, because it is not possible to ascertain data. The information
required is not collated when training is held.

201
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

GRI Indicators

GRI Application Level continued
C

C+

B

B+

A

A+

Self Declared
Third Party Checked
GRI Approved

This indicator is fully complied with.
This indicator is partially complied with.
Annual Report 2014
Additional indicators are printed in gray.
Every single core indicator is presented. Gaps in numeration need to be attributed to
the fact that only relevant additional indicators are presented in the index.

202
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

Glossary
A
Alkylphenol Ethoxylates (APEOs)
The primary biodegradability of nonionic alkylphenol ethoxylate (APEO) surfactants
meets the demands imposed by environmental protection agencies. However, the
intermediate products formed during biodegradation are relatively persistent and much
more toxic to fish than are the surfactants themselves.

B
Bioavailability
Bioavailability is a term that describes the proportion of an active ingredient which has
made its way unchanged into the bloodstream. It indicates how fast a substance (e.g.
pharmaceutical) is absorbed and how much of it is available at the site of action.
Biodiversity
In 1992, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development passed the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). This convention addresses the preservation of
biological diversity (genes, species and habitats), the sustainable exploitation of such
diversity, as well as access rules to, and the sharing of benefits from, genetic resources
(access and benefit sharing). So far, the CBD has been signed by 168 countries and the
EU (with Germany becoming a signatory in 1993). In May 2011, the EU Commission
published a biodiversity strategy to 2020.
Biotechnology
Biotech processes use living cells or enzymes to transform and produce substances.
Depending on the application, a distinction is made between red, green and white
biotechnology. Red biotechnology: medicinal-pharmaceutical applications. Green
biotechnology: agricultural applications. White biotechnology: biotech-based products
and industrial processes, e.g. in the chemical, textile and food industries.

203
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

C
Carbon Dioxide
Chemical name: CO2. This gas naturally constitutes 0.04% of air. Carbon dioxide is
generated during the combustion of coal, natural gas and other organic substances.
As a greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, it contributes to global warming. Since the
start of industrialization (circa 1850), its concentration in air has risen from approx. 300
to 390 ppm (parts per million). This value is increasing by around 2 ppm every year.
Other greenhouse gases are represented as CO2 equivalents (CO2e) based on their
greenhouse effect.
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
COD is a measure of wastewater contamination. This parameter defines the amount of
oxygen necessary to fully oxidize all organic material in wastewater.
Chlorinated Hydrocarbons (CHCs)
Organic compounds containing chlorine. They are used, for example, in the manufacture
of plastics and solvents. CHCs are chemically stable and fat-soluble; some of them are
environmental toxins.
Combined Heat and Power Plant
Combined heat and power (CHP) plants generate both electricity and useful heat. This
system can be much more efficient at using the input energy (e.g. fuel oil or natural gas)
than are conventional systems with separate facilities. Because primary energy is
conserved, CHP plants emit significantly less carbon dioxide than conventional power
plants.
Cyclodextrins
Cyclodextrins belong to the family of cyclic oligosaccharides (i.e. ring-shaped sugar
molecules). They are able to encapsulate foreign substances such as fragrances and to
release active ingredients at a controlled rate. WACKER BIOSOLUTIONS produces and
markets cyclodextrins.
Cysteine
Cysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid. It belongs to the non-essential amino acids,
as it can be formed in the body. It is used, for example, as an additive in foods and
cough mixtures. Cysteine and its derivatives are a business field at WACKER
BIOSOLUTIONS.

D
Dispersible Polymer Powders
Created by drying dispersions in spray or disc dryers. VINNAPAS® polymer powders
from WACKER are recommended as binders in the construction industry, e.g. for tile
adhesives, self-leveling compounds and repair mortars. The powders improve adhesion,
cohesion, flexibility and flexural strength, as well as water-retention and processing
properties.
Dispersion
Binary system in which one component is finely dispersed in another. VINNAPAS®
dispersions from WACKER are vinyl-acetate-based binary copolymers and terpolymers
in liquid form. They are mainly used as binders in the construction industry, e.g. for
grouts, plasters and primers.

204
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

E
Elastomers
Polymers that exhibit almost perfectly elastic behavior: i.e. they deform when acted upon
by an external force and return to their exact original shape when the force is removed.
While the duration of the force has no effect on perfectly elastic behavior, the
temperature does.
Ethylene
Ethylene is a colorless, slightly sweet-smelling gas that, under normal conditions, is
lighter than air. It is needed as a chemical starting product for a great many synthetic
materials, including polyethylene and polystyrene. It is used to make products for the
household, agricultural and automotive sectors, among others. For environmental and
safety reasons, ethylene is transported through pipelines.
Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) / External Thermal Insulation
Composite Systems (ETICS)
Systems for thermally insulating buildings and thus for increasing energy efficiency. They
are made up of a combination of materials: adhesive mortar, insulation board, base coat,
glass fiber mesh and finish coat. VINNAPAS® polymer powders from WACKER
POLYMERS ensure that the insulation material bonds firmly to the mortar and finish
coat. As a result, the insulating system offers greater durability and much more
resistance to weathering and wear.

G
Global Product Strategy (GPS)
The Global Product Strategy (GPS) – an initiative developed by the International Council
of Chemical Associations – contains rules for the assessment of the properties of
chemicals and on how to provide information on their safe use.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol
The GHG Protocol is an internationally recognized instrument for quantifying and
controlling greenhouse gas emissions. The standards outlined in the GHG Protocol have
been jointly developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI) since 1998. The GHG Protocol
specifies how an organization should calculate its greenhouse gas emissions and how
emission-reducing programs should be conducted.

H
Hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD)
A chlorinated organic compound which, at room temperature, is a colorless liquid with a
mild odor. It occurs as a byproduct in certain chemical production and combustion
processes, such as the synthesis of tetrachloroethene, trichloroethene or carbon
tetrachloride. The EU’s water framework directive classifies HCBD as hazardous. The
results of the European Emission Inventory show that most of the reported emissions
originate from bulk production of basic organic chemicals.
Hydrogen Chloride (HCl)
The chemical industry uses HCl to generate valuable intermediates from organic and
inorganic raw materials. The colorless gas dissolves in water to form hydrochloric acid.

205
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

I
IEA
The IEA is the International Energy Agency (9, rue de la Fédération, 75739 Paris
CEDEX 15, France). The IEA is a major organization that systematically analyzes the
world’s energy consumption and supply. Every year, it publishes a comprehensive report
and several analyses.
IPCC Fourth Assessment Report
In 1990, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) started
issuing reports that summarized scientific knowledge on global warming. The 2007
Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) is the most recent in the series. Published every five to
six years, these IPCC reports provide information about the human impact on climate.

P
Polymer
A polymer is a large molecule made up of smaller molecular units (monomers). It
contains between 10,000 and 100,000 monomers. Polymers can be long or ball-shaped.
Polysilicon
Hyperpure polycrystalline silicon from WACKER POLYSILICON is used for
manufacturing wafers for the electronics and solar industries. To produce it,
metallurgical-grade silicon is converted into liquid trichlorosilane, highly distilled and
deposited in hyperpure form at 1,000 °C.
Primary Energy
Primary energy is obtained from naturally occurring sources such as coal, gas or wind.
Secondary energy, in contrast, is derived from primary energy via a transformation
process (which often involves energy losses); examples include electricity, heat and
hydrogen.

206
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

S
Semiconductor
A substance whose electrical conductivity is much lower than that of metals, but
increases dramatically as the temperature rises. Semiconductors can be modified for a
particular purpose by doping with foreign atoms.
Silanes
Silanes are used as monomers for the synthesis of siloxanes or sold directly as reagents
or raw materials. Typical applications include surface treatment, reagents in
pharmaceutical synthesis or coupling agents for coatings.
Silica
Collective term for compounds with the general formula SiO2 nH2O. Synthetic silicas are
obtained from sand. Based on their method of production, a distinction is made between
precipitated silicas and pyrogenic silicas (such as HDK®).
Silica, Pyrogenic
White, synthetic, amorphous silicon dioxide (SiO2) in powder form, made by flame
hydrolysis of silicon compounds. Variously used as an additive for silicone rubber
grades, sealants, surface coatings, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Silicon
After oxygen, silicon is the most common element on the earth’s crust. In nature, it
occurs without exception in the form of compounds, chiefly silicon dioxide and silicates.
Silicon is obtained through energy-intensive reaction of quartz sand with carbon and is
the most important raw material in the electronics industry.
Silicon Wafer
A silicon wafer is a disc with a thickness of between approximately 200 and 800 µm, and
is used by the semiconductor industry for the manufacture of semiconductor devices, i.e.
integrated circuits and discrete components.
Silicones
General term used to describe compounds of organic molecules and silicon. According
to their areas of application, silicones can be classified as fluids, resins or rubber grades.
Silicones are characterized by a myriad of outstanding properties. Typical areas of
application include construction, the electrical and electronics industries, shipping and
transportation, textiles and paper coatings.
Siloxanes
Systematic name given to compounds comprising silicon atoms linked together via
oxygen atoms and with the remaining valences occupied by hydrogen or organic groups.
Siloxanes are the building blocks for the polymers (polysiloxane and polyorganosiloxane)
that form silicones.

207
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Glossary

V
VINNAPAS®
WACKER’s brand name for dispersions, dispersible polymer powders, solid resins and
their associated product solutions. VINNAPAS® dispersions and polymer powders are
primarily used in the construction industry as polymeric binders, e.g. in tile adhesives,
exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS)/external thermal insulation composite
systems (ETICS), self-leveling compounds, and plasters.
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are gaseous and vaporous substances of organic
origin that are present in the air. They include hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes and
organic acids. Solvents, liquid fuels and synthetic substances can be VOCs, and so can
organic compounds originating from biological processes. High VOC concentrations can
be irritating to the eyes, nose and throat and may cause headaches, dizziness and
tiredness.

W
Wacker Operating System (WOS)
The “Wacker Operating System” (WOS) program bundles, promotes and processes
corporate projects for systematic process improvement. It is the basis for a groupwide
improvement initiative by WACKER.

208
Wacker Chemie AG
Sustainability Report 2013/2014

Corporate Sustainability
Dr. Jutta Matreux
Wacker Chemie AG
Johannes-Hess-Straße 24
84489 Burghausen, Germany
Tel. +49 8677 83-86321
sustainability@wacker.com
Corporate Communications
Joachim Zdzieblo
Wacker Chemie AG
Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. +49 89 6279-1165
sustainability@wacker.com
Publisher
Wacker Chemie AG
Corporate Communications
Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. +49 89 6279-0
Fax +49 89 6279-1770
www.wacker.com
info@wacker.com

Executive Board
Dr. Rudolf Staudigl (President & CEO)
Dr. Tobias Ohler
Dr. Joachim Rauhut
Auguste Willems
Commercial Register Court
District Court: München
HRB 159705
Sales Tax ID No.: DE129275094
Online Layout and PDF Design
nexxar GmbH, Vienna, Austria
www.nexxar.com

This report was created from the content of an online-version,
which offers additional, interactive features.
www.wacker.com/sustainabilityreport

7296en/07.15

Wacker Chemie AG
Hanns-Seidl-Platz 4
81737 München, Germany
Tel. +49 89 6279-0
Telefax +49 89 6279-1170
www.wacker.com

