Motivated Efficient Innovative
SUSTAINABILITY AT ZF

Content

Preface
Dear Readers,

able to deliver products for central aspects of
climate-friendly e-mobility – ranging from vehicle

After our company’s centennial, we were moti-

drive systems to alternative energy generation.

vated to launch ourselves into the next century.
We want to continue to be innovative and effi-

Approximately 138,000 employees in 40 coun-

cient in our actions. The largest acquisition in the

tries are doing research and working

history of our company supports this goal.

on innovative and efficient solu-

Thanks to the integration of TRW, the ZF Group

tions to reduce emissions and the

has grown by almost 100 percent and has gained

number of traffic accidents in the

additional expertise that will be crucial when it

future. We offer them a motivating

comes to making future mobility safer. At our

working environment and support

company, economic growth will continue to be

them in achieving a better work-

closely linked with a strong sense of responsibil-

life balance. And we are

ity for our environment, employees and for soci-

successful: Our global

ety. We have committed ourselves to this respon-

employee survey

sibility by signing the UN Global Compact.

showed that 85 percent of our employ-

Preface

Page 01

Sustainability at ZF

Page 02

People

Page 03

Environment

Page 13

Products

Page 19

Global Compact Communication on Progress	

Page 27

Notes on the Report	

Page 29

Imprint

Page 29

As a systems supplier, we are decisively shaping

ees would recom-

the global megatrends of efficiency, safety and

mend ZF as a good

autonomous driving. Our “ZF 2025” strategy

employer. Moti-

focuses on these megatrends. Last year, we closely

vated, innovative,

involved our employees in our strategy approach

efficient: This is

and anchored it even more deeply in the mindset

how we will continue

and the company. We have pooled our power of

to deliver top perfor-

innovation for driveline electrification in our

mance. This is what we

newly created E-Mobility Division. Our objective is

stand for together. This

to equip vehicles worldwide with powerful electric

is what ZF stands for.

drives, thus contributing to climate protection.
The industrial drives and wind turbine gearbox

Yours sincerely,

segment which we acquired from Bosch Rexroth

Dr. Stefan Sommer

in 2015 is also a part of this strategy. We are now

Chief Executive Officer

01

Sustainability at ZF
Climate change, urbanization or demographic change – these global
megatrends have become tangible and therefore form an integral part
of the “ZF 2025” strategy.
With clearly defined strategic goals and sustainable cor-

nomic, ecological and social developments. The results

porate governance, ZF is actively shaping the changes

are incorporated into our sustainability program which,

in the automotive industry brought about by these and

together with the “ZF 2025” strategy, maps out our path

other megatrends. In our target setting process for inno-

into the future. Efficiency, safety and automated driving

vation and sustainability management, we consider

as well as ZF’s responsibility for its employees and for

long-term factors that are changing due to global eco-

society are at the core of all our efforts.

Megatrends and outside influences

Globalization

Urbanization

ZF products offer systems
solutions for these three
main trends

Climate change

Efficiency
Demographic
change

E-mobility

Scarce resources and
energy efficiency

War for talents

Advanced driver
assistance systems
and safety

02

Digitization
and networking

New markets and
structures

New mobility
concepts

ZF
Automated
driving

Safety

Motivated.

Motivation is the key to success. Motivated people reach their goals more easily.
ZF provides support to people inside and outside the company, creating framework
conditions that allow them to develop and successfully prepare for the future.

03

Highlights &

key figures

Society &
commitment

EUR 2.4 million

“ZF hilft.” has been supporting aid projects worldwide since 2005. The anniversary
year saw the birth of the “100 Years – 100 Schools” education initiative to which all
ZF employees were able to contribute.

were donated by employees, ZF, customers, suppliers
and friends of ZF during the anniversary year 2015. The
money was used to build and expand 100 educational
institutions in poverty-stricken regions around the globe.

Attractive employer
In the renowned “trendence Graduate Barometer” among future
engineers, ZF is ranked 14th – moving up two places compared to
the previous year. In a survey among economists, ZF is ranked 26th.

11.1%

Global employer

Worldwide humanitarian aid

For example, a total of 30 new schools will be founded

Via “ZF hilft.”, ZF employees and the Board of Manage-

in Bangladesh, India and Sierra Leone. 70 different

ment have supported donation projects all around the

educational institutions, in China, Mexico, Nepal and

globe for victims of natural disasters, epidemics and

Peru, for example, will benefit from the training of

famine. More than EUR 7.5 million have been collected

young specialists and the provision of adequate teach-

for this purpose in ten years. ZF bears all administra-

ing materials.

tion expenses. This guarantees that all donations can be
2013
68,236
Employees

2014
71,402
Employees

2015
138,269
Employees

Abroad 28,082

Abroad 30,214

Abroad 88,138

Germany 40,154

Germany 41,188

Germany 50,131

fewer accidents leading
to one or several working days lost per one
million working hours
at ZF compared to the
previous year.

used directly for relief projects such as the rebuilding
efforts after the tsunami in Southeast Asia, the earthquake in the Kashmir region or a water supply for
refugees in Chad.

100 Years – 100 Schools
During the anniversary year, ZF rolled out the largest
humanitarian education project in its history. By donat-

Children are so hungry for knowledge. It is a tragedy when they
cannot afford to go to school.

ing to “ZF hilft.”, 100 educational institutions are to be
built and expanded in various poverty-stricken regions
around the globe. Children from 100 African villages
will receive bicycles to get to school every day.

87%

2,300

The initiative is aimed at creating a basic education
infrastructure. EUR 2.4 million in donations provided
by the company, business partners, friends and – for the

of ZF employees worldwide are proud to work for ZF.

04

apprentices and dual-education students were employed at ZF in
2015, making ZF one of the largest training companies in Germany.

first time – worldwide ZF employees have proven that

Ulrike Pfaumann de Ureña, a ZF employee
from Friedrichshafen, has been collecting donations for a school in the Dominican Republic for
ten years. These donations enabled the school
to be expanded – now it can accept more students and offer more school books than ever
before.

great things can be achieved as well.
05

Opportunities &
diversity
As a global company, ZF is as colorful and diverse as its employees. Our success as
an employer depends on how well we are able to attract the best talent worldwide
and to convince them to stay with us. ZF has been a member of the Diversity Charter
(Charta der Vielfalt) since 2014.
Women’s careers at ZF

Demographic change
Germany’s population structure is changing. People are
getting older and there are fewer births with each generation. At the same time, society is becoming more diverse
– not least due to the marked increase in immigration.
While the average age in Germany was approximately
38 years in 1995, it has meanwhile increased to over 45.
This makes Germany the country with the second-oldest
population after Japan.
Different challenges around the globe
From a global perspective, demographic change comes
in many different shapes. While primarily Western industrialized countries are facing the challenges of an aging
population, people in developing and newly industrialized
countries are much younger. In India, for instance, the
average age is 26.6.

In 2015, the company joined the “Femtec. Promoting
Talents” network to win over highly qualified female
university graduates in the areas of natural sciences and
engineering to start a career at ZF. The network supports the best female students at the leading technical

Since ZF is a global player with approximately 230 locations in 40 countries, the age structure of the company’s
workforce is very heterogeneous and strongly dependent
on the respective region. The share of older employees is
much higher in Germany, whereas international locations
employ younger people.
This requires individual measures adapted to fit local
requirements. In Germany, ZF is pursuing a comprehensive
approach to account for the challenges of an ageing society. For example, workplaces are designed to accommodate the requirements of an ageing workforce and emphasis is placed on balancing career and family. ZF is also
focusing on health management, working time models
and lifelong learning.

universities in Germany and Switzerland in the areas of
individual career planning and professional networking.
Age distribution comparison of the total populations of selected regions (2015)

Balancing career and family

100 +

72 percent of ZF employees believe that they have a

support for families as well as continuous information
and communication regarding the opportunities and
benefits of offers created to support families.

06

Germany

USA

India

70 – 74

ing together across locations since 2012. The experts

include flexible working hours and locations, financial

MenWomen

80 – 84

“Career & Family” Expert Team which has been work-

ance between work and family time. These measures

MenWomen

90 – 94

good work-life balance – a result achieved by the

developed measures in five fields to create a good bal-

MenWomen

60 – 64

ratZFatz day-care center

50 – 54

At the ZF day-care center, 14 staff take care of 60 children – up to
eleven hours per day. The interior was created to cater for the
needs of those using the center: Everything is available, from a
water studio in which the children can experiment to an office
room in which parents can work and be close to their children at
the same time.

30 – 34

40 – 44

20 – 24
10 – 14
0–4

07

Satisfaction &
potential

87%

In 2015, for the first time in ZF’s 100-year history, all employees worldwide were
asked how satisfied they were at the company. Barely one year later, a great number
of improvements are being worked on or have already been put into practice.
Worldwide satisfaction survey
Employees at 122 locations of the ZF world were asked

The employee survey has provided us for the

to take part in the first Group-wide employee survey. Its

first time with comprehensive feedback from

aim was to collect experience and opinions regarding
work at ZF. The idea was to identify strengths and

employees of all divisions and locations world-

weaknesses and to include employees in the continuous

wide. It covers all major questions relating to

search for improvement potential at all levels of the
company.

Positive attitude at the company

78%

of employees worldwide
participated in
the survey.

are optimistic
about ZF’s future.

every manager and employee to
draw the right conclusions from

in the survey. 87 percent of them are proud to be work-

this information. We must now

Approximately

Actions follow answers

mend ZF as a good employer to their friends and rela-

work carefully and in a focused

tives – these are results we can build on. Of course, the

and structured manner to develop

will be essential for process optimization

only 61 percent of the respondents currently feel that

solutions in all areas where we

TRW and the further strengthening of the com-

they are able to explain ZF’s strategy and objectives.

are not yet good enough in

pany’s competitiveness. After the survey,

order to achieve real

defined worldwide. The majority of the actions

survey also revealed some need for action. For example,

improvements.
Jürgen Holeksa, ZF Board Member
Human Resources, relies on
employees who will continue to
actively shape the company after
the survey.
08

78%

our work at ZF. It is now up to each and

Approximately four fifths of all employees participated
ing at ZF. 85 percent of our employees would recom-

are proud of
working for ZF.

The survey provided important insights which
throughout the Group, the integration of ZF

31%

of improvement measures
have already been
completed.

approximately 15,000 concrete actions were
defined are currently taking place and more
than 30 percent have already been completed.

09

Occupational safety &

health protection

Lifelong learning &
mobile working

2015 focused on the Board of Management Resolution on global accident management. Its aim for 2025 is to reduce the number of accidents at all ZF locations by
60 to 70 percent.
First successes

ber of accidents. Group-wide sharing of experiences,

In the course of its first year, the accident reduction pro-

promoted by central coordinators in the regions and

gram has already reduced the Lost Time Accident Rate

divisions, and specific safety leadership trainings help

(number of industrial accidents resulting in one or sev-

them do their job.

eral working days lost per one million working hours)
by a total of 11.1 percent. Compared to the previous

Systematic risk assessment

year, there were 136 fewer accidents and 1,526 fewer

Risk assessment is a central tool to reduce the number

working days lost.

of work-related accidents in the long run. It helps identify potentially dangerous activities and respective mea-

Lifelong learning, further development and qualification are decisive success factors,
also when it comes to securing the company’s long-term future. Here, ZF places importance on digital learning, working more flexibly and in networks.

New organizational structure

sures to promote health protection. The Passau location

One factor that contributed decisively to this decrease

has found a playful approach to this serious topic by

was the introduction of an optimized organizational

developing a “Risk Wheel” to enable employees to assess

structure to further strengthen the role of the occupa-

everyday risks themselves. It has already been handed

Strategic skills

particular and keeps expanding both contents and

tional health and safety officers at the locations. They

out more than 300 times to supervisors and their

The right skills are required in order to guarantee that

learning formats equally. Digital Learning@ZF inte-

are now better integrated into the operational processes

employees. As a result, the Lost Time Accident Rate at

ZF retains its power of innovation and stays fit for the

grates the corresponding aspects of digitization into all

and are therefore able to support executive managers in

the Passau location decreased by 8.5 percent compared

future. This is why ZF employees can choose from a

ZF Campus further training courses and designs inno-

identifying and planning measures to reduce the num-

to the previous year.

wide range of advanced qualification opportunities.

vative and collaborative learning formats.

Since 2015, employees working toward a full-time or

Health protection at ZF TRW
ZF TRW offers health promotion programs to its employees at a
global level. The topics vary depending on the location and cover
a broad spectrum, from a healthy diet to cancer prevention. The
“Healthy Workplace – Stress Management” campaign has been a
focus in Europe since 2014. ZF TRW is a partner of this initiative

10

and implemented two pilot projects at European locations. In
Aschaffenburg and Pamplona, employees and executive managers
were trained to better recognize stress-related risks signals and to
address them in a supportive and targeted manner.

part-time extra-occupational university degree in an

Location-independent working

engineering domain can obtain a scholarship. At the

The modern working world is not only subject to funda-

company-owned “ZF Campus,” experts and executive

mental content-related changes. It is also itself embed-

managers acquire the skills they need for a successful

ded in the completely new realities of many employees.

implementation of the ZF strategy. Innovative learning

In order to face this challenge, ZF created the “Mobile

methods within the scope of an exchange across divi-

Work” program in 2015, giving employees in Friedrich-

sions and countries enable ZF and its employees to

shafen the opportunity to do their work from outside

develop together. ZF Campus focuses on digital skills in

their workplace for up to 80 hours per month.
11

Sustainability program
The company must provide the right prerequisites in order to motivate employees to give their best. One approach in this regard is the sustainability program,
which we will briefly illustrate below.
Positioning as a globally

In the coming years, we would like to maintain the good positions we

attractive employer

achieved in recent rankings and be among the top 20 employers for
young engineers in Germany. For 2016, ZF is also planning the implementation of benchmarks regarding our attractiveness as an employer
in China and the U.S.

Increasing the number of women

At the first managerial level below the Board of Management, we want

in executive management posi-

to increase the proportion of women from 6.3 percent to 8.4 percent, and

tions by 2017

at the second managerial level from 6.1 percent to 8.1 percent. At the
moment, 15 percent of the members of the Supervisory Board are
women.

Implementation of the recom-

More than 15,000 suggestions for improvement were obtained through

mendations from the employee

the employee survey. We were able to put almost one third of them into

survey and new version by 2018

practice in 2015 already. Another survey is being planned, which will
include ZF TRW employees, to evaluate the impact of the implemented
measures.

Reduction of the global accident

In the first year of the implementation of this target, we already managed

rate to fewer than five accidents

to reduce the number of accidents ZF-wide by 11.1 percent. The Lost

leading to one or several work-

Time Accident Rate was thus reduced to 12.0. In the previous year, there

ing days lost per one million

were still 13.5 accidents per one million working hours. We still have a

working hours by 2025

long way to go before we reach the target we have set ourselves but we
are on the right track.

12

Efficient.

Efficient processes are good for cost-effectiveness and the environment. This is
why conserving resources, saving energy and preventing emissions are part of
ZF’s corporate policy and a key component of our strategy.

13

Highlights &

key figures

Resource efficiency &
	water
Production is impossible without water. Water is essential as a coolant for the industrial
sector and for machines. It is all the more important to handle this precious resource
carefully. One model for ZF’s careful handling of water can be found at the Schweinfurt
production location.

Environmental and energy management systems

99 ZF locations

46 ZF locations

have an environmental management system
certified according to ISO 14001.

have an energy management system certified
according to ISO 50001.

Water supply from the river Main
Approximately 600 machines at the Schweinfurt location require continuous cooling in order to reliably
guarantee the production of shock absorbers and

Resource-saving growth

clutches. The required water comes from the river

The specific, i.e. sales-related, consumption of energy and water as well as CO2 emissions have decreased continuously over the
past few years. Thanks to higher production process standards, ZF was able to increasingly decouple its sales growth from resource
consumption.

24.3%

27.8%

30.9%

reduction in specific energy
consumption since 2013.

reduction in specific CO2
emissions since 2013.

reduction in specific water
consumption since 2013.

Specific energy consumption
in MWh per EUR million of sales

Specific CO2 emissions
in tons per EUR million of sales

Specific water consumption
in cubic meters per EUR million of sales

150

50

500

120

147.0

90

54

40

129.5
111.3

50
39

30
20

200

30

10

100

0

0

0

2013

2014

2015

2013

2014

2015

water. ZF has gradually been upgrading the cooling

30%
energy savings and reduced water consumption thanks to upgraded cooling water
systems and reduced water extraction.

Reduced cooling water consumption
A pump station on the riverbank pumps water out of the
2014

2015

Main and pre-cleans it. Afterwards, the water is fed to
Plants North and South. At the power stations in the

14

cooling systems.
Pumps then distribute the clean water in the plants to
keep the machines running at optimal operating temperatures. The cooling water only cools the machines
and is not polluted in the process. Safety heat exchangers prevent the water from being contaminated by oil or
purpose, it is fed back into the river Main.

379.5

2013

particles from the water and prepare it for use in the

other operating supplies. Once the water has fulfilled its

503.2

300

60

used to supply sanitary facilities and fire hydrants with
water systems since 2011.

548.8

400

Main, which flows directly past the plant and is also

plants, fine gravel filters naturally remove suspended

Resource efficiency at ZF TRW
In the context of its resource and waste management, ZF TRW
was able to achieve significant progress over a period of five years.
In 2015, for example 99.7 percent of all metal waste and 99.5 percent of all electronic waste were recycled.

84%

of all waste generated at ZF TRW was recycled in 2015.

15

Energy efficiency &

combined heat and power

Decentralized energy supply
Efficiency can be
increased to more than

90%

According to the
Federal Government,

thanks to combined heat and power plants (CHP).

25%

of the total electricity produced in Germany
are to be generated in CHP plants by 2020.

Net amount of power generated in CHP plants by energy sources in Germany (in TWh)

Others 3.2
Biomass 24.0

Coal 17.8
2014
Total
97.6

Oil 2.3

Since 2013, ZF has been generating its own electricity and heat. At three locations in
Europe, the company now operates energy-efficient combined heat and power plants
to supply itself with energy – a development with an upward trend.
Combined heat and power plant in Friedrichshafen

Combined cycle power plant in Saarbrücken

The modern combined heat and power plant was

Since 2014, ZF covers the entire electricity demand of

installed at the Friedrichshafen location in 2013. The

the Saarbrücken location with a new, highly efficient

plant is driven by a gas engine and has an electric and

combined cycle power plant. The power plant also sup-

thermal power of two megawatts, respectively, and an

plies district heating to the regional energy supplier and

efficiency of 85 percent. It covers approximately 40 per-

thus unites energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness.

cent of the electricity and heat demand of one production plant at the location. The power plant will also supply the ZF Forum – the new Corporate Headquarters –
with energy.

Gas 50.4

Local energy generation
The global energy industry is undergoing radical change.
Renewable energy sources and natural gas are becoming
more important and are supplementing or replacing coal
and nuclear power.
Decentralized energy systems play a large role in this context. As opposed to centralized energy supply by means
of large power plants, local power plants generate the
energy directly where it is needed. If energy is generated
close to where it is needed, transmission losses are
reduced and there is no need for costly high-voltage
power lines.

16

Using energy efficiently
Combined heat and power play an important role in
decentralized energy supply. In these systems, the heat,
which is a by-product of power generation, is used for
space heating, to heat water or for different industrial processes. It enables the optimum use of energy – an ideal
solution for the efficient operation of production locations,
which can simultaneously generate power and heat in
their own power plants.

2,800

65,000
households could be supplied with the electricity produced by the ZF Saarbrücken location.

Prospects
tons of CO2 savings per year thanks to the combined
heat and power plant at the ZF Friedrichshafen location.

ZF TRW energy program
According to ZF TRW’s “Global Energy Vision,” the annual reduction target for energy consumption per production unit is a five percent reduction compared to previous year’s average. The reduction
of total energy consumption by ZF TRW – based on sales – by
28 percent over the past six years shows how consistently this
vision is being implemented.

ZF plans to build a new combined heat and power plant
in one of its plants in Passau. The location will then be
able to supply itself with part of the electricity and heat
it requires and reduce its CO2 emissions by 13 percent at

the same time. After Padua (Italy), Friedrichshafen and
Saarbrücken, Passau will be the fourth location at
which ZF relies on the tried and tested combined heat
and power technology, thus conserving resources and
reducing energy costs.

17

Sustainability program
In order to continuously improve our ecological performance, we developed
the ZF sustainability program to define objectives and monitor them annually.
A small selection of these objectives is presented below:

Reduction of specific

Specific energy consumption decreased considerably – by 14 percent compared

energy consumption in

to the previous year. With respect to the average from 2006 to 2010, specific

relation to sales compared

energy consumption dropped by 32 percent. To realize further potential for

to the previous year

reduction, all European locations are to be certified according to the energy

Innovative.

Trendsetting mobility needs innovation. ZF develops technology to move people
and goods in an efficient and climate-friendly manner. As a global leader in driveline and chassis technology as well as active and passive safety technology,
ZF is already creating the products of tomorrow.

management standard ISO 50001 by 2018; the most important production locations worldwide are to follow in their footsteps at a later point in time.
20 percent reduction in

Despite considerable production increases in 2015, we have been able to stabi-

specific CO2 emissions in

lize absolute CO2 emissions. In 2015 already, we achieved the reduction of spe-

relation to sales by 2020
compared to the average
of the years 2006 to 2010

cific CO2 emissions values we had originally envisaged for 2020. With respect

to the average from 2006 to 2010, specific CO2 emissions dropped by 34 percent
by 2015. Since we are ahead of time, we will therefore update the CO2 reduc-

tion target next year.
Reducing or stabilizing spe-

Compared to the previous year, ZF’s specific water consumption fell by more

cific water consumption in

than 24 percent. In the years ahead, these successes are to be transferred to

relation to sales, compared

and adjusted to fit the requirements of other locations in order to continue this

to the previous year

positive trend.

Reducing the environmen-

Optimization of logistics processes is an important lever for reducing environ-

tal impact of transport

mental impacts. This is why we also want to make the transport-related ecological impact of ZF more transparent by the end of 2016 and take emissions into
account in transport projects.

18

19

Highlights &

key figures

Challenges &

creative talent
Urbanization, climate change and resource scarcity: Facing the main challenges of our
time requires creative talent and expertise. ZF combines both in efficient technology.

Awards
eCarTec Award and international busplaner
Sustainability Award
In 2015, ZF received the Bavarian State
eCarTec Award and the international busplaner
Sustainability Award for its electric low-floor
axle AVE 130. With its two integrated electric motors, the AVE 130 axle system offers a
space-saving and powerful drive which enables
buses to move through city traffic without causing any emissions.

Vehicle Dynamics International Award
In 2015, the British trade journal Vehicle
Dynamics honored ZF with awards in not one
but two categories. The Innovation of the Year
award went to the rear axle steering system
Active Kine­matics Control. It supports the
steering function and improves parking maneuverability, for example. The jury also honored
ZF’s high rate of innovation with the Supplier of
the Year award.

EUR 1.39 billion
investment in R&D

1,036
patent applications
filed in Germany in 2015

According to forecasts published by the United Nations,

in big cities without noise, traffic jams and exhaust

approximately 10 billion people will be living on our

emissions which put the climate at risk. ZF already pro-

planet in 2050 – and two thirds of them will be living in

vides trendsetting technology for such concepts, mak-

cities. This faces planners with major challenges. In this

ing vehicles more efficient, smarter and safer in the

context, moving people and goods plays a key role. Inno-

process.

vative mobility concepts are called for if we want to live

Development locations worldwide

ZF
ZF TRW

20

Germany
Friedrichshafen
Alfdorf
Auerbach
Dielingen
Düsseldorf
Koblenz
Passau

Radolfzell
Schweinfurt

Great Britain
Solihull

China
Shanghai/Anting

Czech Republic
Pilsen

USA
Northville
Farmington Hills
Washington (MI)

Japan
Yokohama

Poland
Czestochowa

Innovative

Mobility by land, by sea
and in the air. ZF technology helps transport goods
and people to their destination safely.

21

Efficient climate protection
The future of

Highly efficient technology reduces fossil fuel
demand and CO2 emissions, thus contributing
towards climate-friendly mobility. ZF offers
integrated solutions from energy generation
to drivelines.

electric cars

In 2015, approximately 1.3 million
electric cars were registered worldwide – around 70 percent more than the
year before. Although the share of electric
cars in the overall market is still small, it is
impossible to overlook the increasing importance of e-mobility as the driving power of
the 21st century. ZF is taking a strategic approach and pools its power of
innovation in the newly created
E-Mobility Division.

70%

Up to
less fuel consumption
thanks to plug-in hybrid
transmissions.

Efficient
fleet operation
Integrated
product portfolio

After the acquisition of
the industrial drives and wind
turbine gearbox segment of Bosch
Rexroth, ZF covers essential production steps of an integrated, climatefriendly e-mobility approach – from
the generation of wind energy
to wind turbine gearboxes.

22

Emission-free
bus transport
Hybrid
drives the
future

Plug-in hybrid transmissions combine the range of a combustion
engine with a locally emission-free electric drive. The volume-produced ZF
8-speed plug-in hybrid transmission
enables purely electric driving up to a
speed of 120 km/h – the combustion
engine only engages once this speed
is exceeded. Up to 70 percent
fuel can be saved with
this system.

Efficient public transport is a
main lever when it comes to relieving traffic congestion in megacities. The
compact electric low-floor axle AVE 130
offers more space for passengers and
enables buses to move through city traffic
without causing any emissions. The flexible bus drive system works as a hybrid
application or as a stand-alone
electric drive, thus fulfilling all
practical requirements.

With the telematics solution
Openmatics, fleet operators can
achieve an optimal utilization of their
trucks or buses and reduce emissions.
An on-board operating system collects
and transfers vehicle and vehicle handling data. Tailor-made apps make it
possible to identify vehicles with high
fuel consumption and to determine savings potential.

23

Automated driving

Integrated safety

The traffic sector causes approximately a quarter
of all global greenhouse gas emissions, with
individual city transport contributing a large
share. In response to this, intelligently connected
vehicles with automated ZF components offer
the greatest possible inner-city mobility,
combined with low emission values.

Integrated sensor and camera systems as
well as brakes and airbags help prevent
accidents and are the basis of automated
driving. Thanks to the integration of TRW,
ZF combines efficient driveline and chassis
technology and effective safety systems.

25%

72%

Up to
of all rear-end collisions involving
personal injury in Germany could
be prevented by an automatic
emergency braking system.

of parking spaces in the
U.S. could be freed up
for other use thanks to
automated parking.

Advanced
Urban Vehicle

With the all-electric
concept vehicle, ZF demonstrates the potential of
intelligent networking
between mechanical
components and
sensors.
Automatic
parking
With a steering angle of
up to 75 degrees, the
3.7 meter long Advanced
Urban Vehicle can be maneuvered into a 4.3 meter parking space fully automatically.

24

Networked driving
A cloud-based driver
assistance function stores
route and vehicle handling
data. This data is, for example,
used to optimize the cornering speed for greater
energy efficiency.

Highly automated
driving

In the context of highly automated driving, the vehicle becomes
a chauffeur. It stays in lane, determines the distance to the vehicle in
front and initiates braking and evasive
maneuvers. Automated assistance
systems from ZF are already
establishing the basis of
future driving today.

Think – control
units
The central control unit
processes the information collected by the sensors and activates safety functions such as
the automatic emergency
braking system or the
airbag if required.

See –
environmental
sensors
Forward-looking cameras and
360-degree radar sensors monitor virtually all complex traffic
situations and detect passing
cars as well as pedestrians
crossing the road.

Safe and
automated
driving

ZF allows cars to
see, think and act.
Act – actuators
Actuators turn electric
commands from the control
units into mechanical movements
such as braking maneuvers. Recuperation makes it possible to convert
part of the kinetic energy back into
electric energy which can be used
to charge the battery of the
hybrid or electric vehicle.

25

Sustainability program
Our products and technologies are our biggest lever when it comes to
contributing to sustainable development – particularly in the area of mobility.
We focus on safety, efficiency and automated driving:

Continuously increasing

Increasing cost-effectiveness, reducing emissions and maintaining or improv-

the efficiency of our

ing performance – these three objectives are the basis of development work at

products

ZF. In 2015, we again successfully contributed to more sustainable mobility
with our newly developed hybrid modules and plug-in hybrid systems. With
the second generation of the globally successful 8-speed automatic transmission, we managed to further reduce fuel consumption of conventional drives
compared to the already highly efficient predecessor model. We will continue
systematically on this path, for example with the foundation of the E-Mobility

Global Compact

Progress Communication
By signing the United Nations Global Compact in May 2012, ZF committed itself to
respecting ten principles of sustainable corporate governance. In this chapter, we
report on how the company is implementing these principles.

Principle

Implementation by ZF

Principle 1: Businesses
should support and respect
the protection of internationally proclaimed human
rights.

Responsible and sustainable business management and the assumption of corporate social responsibility are
fundamental components of ZF’s corporate policy. In our Code of Conduct and Principles of Social Responsibility, we make a clear commitment to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and to compliance
with human rights. These regulations are binding for all employees of the ZF Group.

Principle 2: Businesses
should make sure that they
are not complicit in human
rights abuses.

The ZF Business Partner Principles require all suppliers and service providers to commit to respecting nationally and internationally applicable laws and regulations at their locations worldwide and to ensuring that
human rights are respected and human dignity is protected in all business processes. The contents of the
Business Partner Principles provide the binding foundation for supplier self-assessments and audits. By the
end of 2016, all new and existing suppliers will be obligated to endorse the Business Partner Principles. ZF
reserves the right to review the business relationship with each supplier or service provider in case of deviations from the Business Partner Principles.

Principle 3: Businesses
should uphold the freedom
of association and the
effective recognition of
the right to collective bargaining.

Applicable legislation around the globe as well as the CSR guidelines that apply to ZF worldwide form the
basis for our cooperation with our employees’ interest groups. They specify that it is possible for ZF to establish employee or trade union representations of interests, even if the national standard does not fully conform
with the ILO standards in the respective country.

Principle 4: Businesses
should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced
and compulsory labor.

We explicitly reject any form of forced labor. All work performed within the ZF Group must be voluntary. We
support the abolition of slavery and forced labor. The corresponding rules are defined in the ZF Code of Conduct and in ZF’s Principles of Social Responsibility.

Division in 2016.
Continuous further

The newly created Active & Passive Safety Technology Division which was

development of active and

founded as a result of the acquisition of TRW Automotive allows ZF to make

passive safety systems

an even larger contribution to occupant safety. Our technologies enable intelligent systems in the vehicle to identify and interpret hazardous situations
independently of the driver and to react rapidly and correctly by performing
autonomous braking or evasive maneuvers.

26

27

Principle

Implementation by ZF

Principle 5: Businesses
should uphold the effective
abolition of child labor.

The same applies to the avoidance of any form of exploitative child labor. At ZF, we always observe the
minimum age for employment stipulated in national legislation. The natural development of children shall not
be inhibited. The safety and health of children shall not be impaired. Their dignity shall be respected. These
rules are based on the ILO Conventions No. 138 and 182. If child labor is detected at ZF or a supplier, the
child worker shall, whenever possible, be replaced by an adult member of the family in order to guarantee
the family’s income.

Principle 6: Businesses
should uphold the elimination of discrimination in
respect of employment and
occupation.

We believe that diversity and appreciation of this diversity have a positive effect on ZF and on society. This
is why we committed ourselves to actively implementing diversity in our organization when we became a
member of the Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt) in 2014. In 2015, we introduced a mentoring program
for female executive managers for this purpose.

Principle 7: Businesses
should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.

Precautionary environmental protection is a key element of ZF’s environmental strategy which is based on
ZF’s environmental policy which has been developed continuously since 1996 and is binding for all locations
worldwide. In 2015, 99 production companies and organizational units were certified in accordance with
the international ISO 14001 standard. ZF’s centennial in 2015 also marked the anniversary of the ISO 14001
matrix certification which had been introduced ten years before. Today this certification is an integrated
management system which also takes into account the ISO 50001 and OHSAS 18001 standards.

This document is the fourth sustainability report published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG. Due to the acquisition
of the former U.S. company TRW Automotive in the
year under review, this report is for the first time not
based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It is rather an interim report and, as such, a summary of ZF’s non-financial performance in the fiscal
year 2015. Unless otherwise specified, all statements

Principle 8: Businesses
should undertake initiatives
to promote greater environmental responsibility.

To promote environmental awareness, ZF actively includes its employees, suppliers, service providers and
customers in its environmental management. Employees are trained on a regularly basis, suppliers and service providers have to respect environmental regulations and customers are informed about the environmental impacts of our products.

Principle 9: Businesses
should encourage the development and diffusion
of environmentally friendly
technologies.

With its technologies and development work, ZF is making an important contribution to the objective of
more efficient and resource-saving mobility. We continuously further develop conventional drives in order to
reduce fuel consumption. With our newly developed hybrid modules, plug-in hybrid systems and our new,
independent E-Mobility Division, we are playing a role in shaping more sustainable low-emission mobility.

Principle 10: Businesses
should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

For ZF as a global company, compliance is an essential element of successful management and good corporate governance. The principle “If there is no legal way, then there is no way for ZF” underlines our stance
in this matter. The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) creates the framework for meeting these
requirements. It focuses on the subjects of anti-corruption, antitrust law and financial losses for ZF. At the
same time, the ZF Code of Conduct stipulates corresponding principles which are binding for all employees
of the ZF Group. All executive managers of the Group are instructed to strictly follow the Code of Conduct
and communicate it to their employees. ZF provides them with comprehensive information and training
courses to support them in fulfilling this task.

28

Notes on the Report &
	
Imprint

and key figures in this report refer to the locations of
ZF, excluding TRW (“ZF Legacy”). For the fiscal year
2016, we are again planning to publish a report which is
entirely based on the GRI guidelines for ZF including
the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division which
was newly created with the acquisition of TRW Auto­
motive.
At the same time, this document represents our progress report to the United Nations Global Compact that
we joined in May 2012.

ZF Friedrichshafen AG
88038 Friedrichshafen
Germany
Phone: +49 7541 77-0
Fax +49 7541 77-908000
www.zf.com
Contacts
Christine Betz, Janina Heel
ZF Friedrichshafen AG
Corporate Compliance/Sustainability
Graf-von-Soden-Platz 1
88038 Friedrichshafen
E-mail: sustainability@zf.com
Editorial deadline: May 30, 2016
The report is available in German and English;
both versions can be downloaded at www.zf.com.
Consultancy, text and layout
akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich
Print
Eberl Print GmbH, Immenstadt
Paper
Profisilk FSC® Mix Credit, woodfree white semimatt

29

twitter.com/zf_konzern
facebook.com/zffriedrichshafen
youtube.com/zffriedrichshafenag

0000 762 174

ZF Friedrichshafen AG
Compliance and Sustainability ZF Group
88038 Friedrichshafen
Germany
Phone +49 7541 77-0
Fax
+49 7541 77-908000
www.zf.com

