SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

Report Information
2

This is the third edition of the sustainability report published by ZF Friedrichshafen
AG. It is based upon the fiscal year of 2014 and addresses customers, employees,
suppliers, politicians, authorities, as well as all other target groups that are interested
in our company and wish to know upon which values and principles we operate. The
report is intended to offer transparency, with a particular focus on our sustainability
activities and objectives.
During the evaluation and the compilation of the contents for this report, we again
used the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a framework. For the
first time, the report applies the guidelines of the new G4 version of the GRI. They
require that the company performs a materiality analysis which sets priorities in reporting and focuses on central elements of the performance indicators in the fields of economy, ecology, and society. The process for determining the material issues is described
on pages 16-17 of this report. This report was compiled according to the “core” option
and the fulfillment of the GRI indicators is shown in the GRI Content Index (page 74).
The GRI has confirmed the placement of the standard materiality data (G4-17 to G4-27)
both in the GRI Content Index and in the report text within the framework of a Materiality Disclosure Service.
At the same time, the report represents our progress report to the United Nations
Global Compact that we joined in May 2012.

Contents
3

		

General Standard Disclosures

4		

Strategy and Analysis

11		

Organizational Profile

16		

Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

19		

Stakeholder Engagement

21		

Report Profile

22		

Governance

23		

Ethics and Integrity

		Specific Standard Disclosures
24		

Economic Performance Indicators

31		

Environmental Performance Indicators

49		

Social Performance Indicators

49		

Labor Practices and Decent Work

62		

Human Rights

64		

Society

68		

Product Responsibility

72		GRI Content Index and Progress Communication on
Progress to UN Global Compact
77		

Imprint

4

Strategy and Analysis

By signing the United Nations Global Compact, we have
committed ourselves to promote and internationally

G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker

endorse the principles that we live by. In our area of

As a global leader in driveline and chassis technology

responsibility and control, we affirm the ten principles of

as well as active and passive safety technology, we have

the Global Compact that are based on the recognized UN

noticed especially in this reporting year how global

standards to respect the protection of human rights,

mega­trends are changing mobility expectations ever

industrial relations, and the environment, as well as the

more dynamically. Population growth, a shortage of

fight against corruption.

resources, climate change, demographic changes, and
digitalization – factors such as these directly affect the

We report annually on our progress in a sustainability

mobility concepts of the future. Today more than ever,

report, which has been published for the third time and

a company which is not able to supply answers quickly

is in compliance with the guidelines of the Global

enough puts its business success at risk.

Reporting Initiative (GRI).

That is why sustainability is vitally important to us. From

Dr. Stefan Sommer,

electric drives to hybridization and right up to the net-

Chief Executive Officer of ZF Friedrichshafen AG

worked vehicle, we work daily on the solutions of the
future – innovations that get us ahead as a company, but

G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities concerning

also contribute to more sustainable development world-

sustainability

wide. The need for technologically more advanced cars

The strategic framework of our sustainability program is

and commercial vehicles has never been more pressing.

determined to a large extent by the global megatrends

Strict CO2 targets require a greater degree of energy effi-

which continually alter the world in which we do busi-

ciency and innovative product developments require well-

ness. For instance, progressive globalization has a major

trained, highly motivated employees. The long-term

impact on ZF's sales and sourcing markets and calls for a

success of ZF depends to a considerable extent on how

stronger international orientation of our structures and

we treat our environment and our stakeholders.

competencies. Furthermore, demographic change and
increasing urbanization in many markets are leading to

The tasks of our sustainability program include

changes in consumer behavior – with fundamentally

systemati­cally taking account of these interconnections,

growing demand in potential conflict with finite

generating opportunities from potential risks, and creat-

resources. This requires a technology shift toward effi-

ing evident added value for our company, our customers,

ciency and resource conservation which ZF is driving

our employees, the environment, and society. In the

forward by continually reducing for instance CO2 and

reporting period, we consolidated all sustainability-

noise emissions.

relevant tasks in a sustainability program for the first
time.

Megatrends play a central part when we set our targets
for innovation and sustainability management. Here, we

We are celebrating our 100th anniversary in 2015 – and

consider long-term factors that are changing due to

that too means sustainability to us. We aim to ensure that

global economic, ecological, and social developments.

the growth of our company, whose dividends support

We also factor in legislation and politics as well as prod-

two nonprofit foundations, remains in tune with its envi-

uct-field trends that already display the initial effects of

ronment. This not only involves complying with laws and

individual megatrends. In our long-term strategy process

regulations, but also implementing ethically sound busi-

based on this analysis, we have identified three central

ness practices with a clear commitment to value-based

topics for product development: driveline efficiency,

management and consistent social responsibility princi-

vehicle safety systems, plus advanced driver assistance

ples.

systems and autonomous driving. All these areas stand

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis

5

for car buyers' changed values, especially when it comes

duction. This means we consider the extent of ZF's

to fuel efficiency and safety. These findings directly

impact in these three areas to be most important. Corre-

influence the ZF innovation process.

sponding objectives formulated and implemented in our
sustainability program are intended to help reduce the

Within an overall social context, ZF actually goes beyond

negative effects of ZF over the long term and to perma-

the classical route of research and development work.

nently multiply our positive contribution. Simultane-

With the ZF Denkfabrik (think tank) founded in 2015,

ously, we take into account possible business risks that

the company embarked on new directions to identify

could result from the megatrends described as well as

trends, technologies, and future issues and to transport

our own ecological and social impacts – for instance in

them into the relevant areas of the Group. There is an

the fields of climate change, security of supply, or attrac-

equal focus here on energy, sustainable mobility, and bet-

tiveness as an employer.

ter urban quality of living. The ZF Denkfabrik was established to open up a new view of the distant future and to
support the company in designing sustainable developments and creating added value for our customers.
During the reporting period, we analyzed the key sustainability effects of ZF, quantified them internally, and
in a media analysis aligned them with the requirements
of our stakeholders in order to further enhance our sustainability program. The findings revealed that top priorities are the ecological impacts and the safety of our
products together with the energy efficiency of our pro-

The ZF Innovation Process
Global megatrends
Society
and
environment
Finance,
politics,
legislation

Product field
megatrends
Search fields
Strategic campaigns
Market roadmap
Projects

Market and
customer
Corporate objectives
Technology
and product

Product roadmap

Technology
roadmap

6

Sustainability Program

Strategic Target

Actions

Status 2014

Date

Product safety
Guarantee of maximum
product safety standards

Employee qualification and rollout of a
new training concept

Revision of the role-oriented training
concept for functional safety for all roles
in the process (e.g. Safety Manager,
developer, tester)

2016

External appraisal / certification of
processes relating to product safety

Examination of the software and electronic processes to ascertain compliance
with ISO26262 and IEC61508 by TÜV
Süd (Technical Monitoring Association)

Ongoing

Cooperation in national and international
bodies dealing with functional safety

Cooperation in working groups dealing
with functional safety at ISO, VDA, and
ZVEI

Ongoing

Annual review of target achievability

The trend toward target achievement in
2020 is positive. In 2014, above-average
contribution to target achievement
(confirmation during certification audit)

2020

Increase in energy efficiency within the
framework of the environmental management system (global) and energy management system (in Germany) through a
broad range of actions at the individual
locations

Implementation of a large number of
actions at the ZF locations whose
effectiveness was confirmed in the
certification audit

Installation of CO2-improved machinery
for our own production

Commissioning of a gas and steam plant
in Saarbrücken (leased) and installation
of 2 combined heat and power plants in
Friedrichshafen

Control of the energy consumption per
sales indicator within the environmental
management system (ISO 14001):
Planning efficiency actions and annual
review of target achievement

Group target achieved. Over-proportional
contribution by ISO 50001-certified locations in Germany (confirmed by certification audit)

Ongoing

Introduction of a systematic energy
management system at all locations in
Germany

Due to extension of the ISO 50001
certification to include the aftermarket
locations, all German locations of ZF
Friedrichshafen AG are certified according to ISO 50001

2014

Appointment of Energy Management Officers for system and operational matters
at the locations and at Group level.

Energy Management Officers have been
appointed

2014

Environmental protection in production
20 percent reduction in specific CO2 emissions relating
to sales by 2020 compared
to the average for the years
2006 to 2010

Reduction of specific energy
consumption in relation to
sales compared to the previous year

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis

7

Strategic Target

Actions

Status 2014

Date

Include energy efficiency as a decisive
criterion in the procurement process for
new machines and systems

Ongoing, initial part-implementation
carried out

2016

Control and annual review on location
and Group levels within the framework of
the environmental management system

Group target achieved.
For project examples, see indicator
description

Ongoing

Appropriate planning of water-saving
projects (depending on relevance)

Industrial water treatment used for
cooling in the hardening process (Brazil,
Sorocaba)

Annual review of the key figures/actions
for target achievement, control via the
environmental management system

Group target achieved

Resource-efficient design of
operational processes

Replace phosphating ball-type joints with
a water-free, hazardous-substance-free
process (Dielingen)

Reduce or stabilize specific
waste generation in relation
to sales compared to the
previous year

Annual review of key figures/
actions for target achievement

Group target not achieved

Resource-efficient design of
operational processes

Direct return of aluminum scrap to manufacturers for melting; then delivery to ZF
foundry

Valuate pollutants (hazardous
substances) and substitute
as far as possible

Hazardous substances management
at the locations

Target achieved

Rollout/localization in Asia-Pacific region

Implementation underway

2015

Increase the environmental compatibility
of product developments compared to
previous generations

▪▪The 2nd generation of the 8-speed
automatic transmission reduces fuel
consumption and CO2 emissions by a
further 3 percent compared to the first
generation
▪▪The 9-speed automatic transmission
reduces fuel consumption by up to
16 percent compared to common
6-speed automatic transmissions

Ongoing

Further strengthen the electronics fields
of competence and their integration into
ZF products and systems, as well as the
field of lightweight design to achieve fuel
efficiency as well as reduced CO2 and
noise emissions during the utilization
phase

Expand the technology fields of electronics, electrical drive technology, and lightweight construction

Ongoing

Reduce or stabilize specific
water consumption in relation to sales, compared to
the previous year

Reduce or stabilize specific
wastewater generation in relation to sales, compared to
the previous year

Ongoing

Ongoing

Environmental impacts of products
Environmentally compatible
product development

8

Strategic Target

Actions

Status 2014

Date

Further develop hybrid technology and
e-mobility

▪▪Establish the Electrical Drive Technology business unit
▪▪Participate in/conduct several projects
for the further development of the electric drive (NPE projects)

Ongoing

Establish a body spanning the different
corporate functions that deals with
product-related environmental protection

Preparatory work to establish the body

2015

Calculate and take account of emissions
in transport projects (apart from pure
cost analysis of internal projects in overland freight)

Group-wide method developed for
calculating emissions in transport

2016

Introduce a tool to increase transparency
within the supply chain (ATM – Active
Transport Management)

Include 35 suppliers by
June 2015

Ongoing
Group rollout

Pool and consolidate inbound freight
transports

A number of consolidation centers
implemented (new: ECC – European
Consolidation Center)

Ongoing

Increase FTL share
(full truck load)

FTL concept and regional trucker concept
applied

Efficient empties management

Account coordination for empties
management in Germany

Use alternative, environmentally friendly
modes of transport

First use of railway transport instead of
air freight for urgent transports from
Europe to China

Avoid and reduce air freight

Cause analysis and checking
of corrective action

Check air freight shipments with new air
freight release process

Air freight release process in operation
since end of 2013

Include emission valuation in the tender
process for land freight (DE)

▪▪Develop a manual
on how to include emissions calculation in the tender process
▪▪Internal coordination of the procedure
between Logistics and Purchasing

2016

Inquire about sustainability aspects of
service providers (fleet, workload,
emissions, empty journeys, etc.)

▪▪Develop a service provider questionnaire
▪▪Coordination with Purchasing and
inclusion in the tender process

End of 2015

Environmental impact of transports
Create transparency about
environmental impacts of
transport

Ecologically efficient design
of transport networks

Shift to alternative modes of
transport

Use sustainable logistics
providers

Ongoing

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis

9

Strategic Target

Actions

Status 2014

Date

Employer attractiveness
Positioning as an attractive
employer worldwide

Intensify cooperation with international
universities

▪▪Increase in applications received in
Germany by 25 percent compared to
the previous year
▪▪Improve employer ranking (e.g.
trendence Graduate Barometer)

Ongoing

Internationalize the trainee program
further

Increased number of applications for
trainee program abroad

Ongoing

Attractive qualification/personal development opportunities: establish and expand
technical academies, global training,
pro»motion programs, LiN (Learning on
the Web) vocational training initiative,
university student support programs,
work-study degree models

Academy landscape portfolio more than
doubled

Ongoing

Family-friendly work structures to
reconcile work and family

▪▪Construction of ZF company children's
daycare center in Friedrichshafen
(approx. 60 places)
▪▪Prepare for fourth re-certification by the
Work and Family Audit
▪▪Introduce the career module: social
module

Ongoing

Flexible working time models
(e.g. sabbaticals)

Introduce mobile working in Friedrichshafen (used by approx. 800 employees)

Ongoing

Global Employee Survey

Conceptual design, pilot, and further
preparation of the global survey in March
2015 were completed

2015, then
regular process every
two years

ZF Leadership Principles and
360° feedback

Leadership concept developed in terms
of content and process, workshops for
executive managers around the world
planned

2017

Include locations within a centrally managed project with voluntary participation
by the locations

Certification of two new locations in the
Asia-Pacific region

Ongoing

Occupational health and safety
OHSAS 18001 certification:
Gradually increase the share
of Group companies participating in the matrix

10

Strategic Target

Actions

Status 2014

Date

Global accident reduction
program

Reduce accident rate to fewer than
5 accidents leading to one or more lost
days per one million working hours

Accident rate: 13.5
Lost days: 24 348

2025

Establish a global organizational structure

Different implementation maturity at
location level

2016

Binding Group key figures and reporting
standardized throughout the Group
Accident management with monthly
review of the KPIs (key performance indicators) as a management instrument at
Group and location management level
Local actions
Participation of the Safety Officers in
planning, procurement, and operation of
machines, plants, and buildings
Regular safety inspections

Preserve and promote
our employees'
health

Record near-accidents

New action

Safety leadership training for executive
managers

New action

Preventive actions

▪▪Apply work safety and health criteria
when planning and procuring machines and equipment.

Ongoing

▪▪Create and distribute the ArbMedVV
communication pack

Done

Foundation of the Occupational Medicine
expert group and the interdisciplinary
Health Management expert group

New action

2015

Determine minimum medical standards
worldwide

▪▪Draw up and pass global minimum
medical standards

Done

▪▪Global implementation initiated

Ongoing

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis | Organizational Profile

11

Organizational Profile

G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters
Friedrichshafen (Germany)

G4-3 Name of the organization
ZF Friedrichshafen AG (in the following referred to

G4-6 Countries with significant operations

as ZF)

The focus of the international business activities of the
ZF Group can traditionally be found in Western Europe,

G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services

primarily in the domestic market of Germany. Here, the

The company was founded in 1915 to produce gears and

company has further large-scale locations in Schwein-

transmissions for aircraft, motor vehicles, and motor-

furt, Saarbrücken, Passau, and in the Dümmer Region in

boats. Today, ZF is a global leader in driveline and chassis

addition to the Corporate Headquarters in Friedrich-

technology as well as active and passive safety technol-

shafen. These locations accommodate both production

ogy (see page 4). ZF has eight main development loca-

and development capacities.In addition to that, there are

tions in Europe, North America, and Asia. This global list

further production companies throughout Germany as

is rounded off by the international service network that

well as in Austria, Great Britain, Belgium, France, Italy,

offers ZF customers an extensive range of services world-

Spain, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Turkey,

wide. It consists of 33 own service companies and more

Russia, and the Netherlands.

than 650 service partners.

G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form
ZF is primarily active in the automotive industry, for

ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation in

passenger car and commercial vehicle manufacturers.

accordance with German law. The shareholders of ZF

In 2014, 70 percent of sales were in the field of passen-

are the Zeppelin Foundation that is administered by the

ger cars and light commercial vehicles below six tons,

City of Friedrichshafen and holds 93.8 percent of com-

18 percent in the field of commercial vehicles over six

pany shares and the Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup

tons, and 12 percent in the field of construction and agri-

Foundation, Lemförde (Germany) that holds 6.2 percent

cultural machinery, marine, aviation, special vehicles,

of company shares. Employee stocks are not issued.

and rail vehicles, as well as wind power. ZF achieved a
63 percent share of its sales with driveline technology

Each year, ZF gives the Zeppelin Foundation a dividend.

products, while the sales share of chassis technology

The funds are exclusively used for non-profit and social

products amounted to 37 percent.

purposes, especially in the fields of science and research,
art and culture, as well as child and youth welfare. The

The most important ZF product brands in the reporting

Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation in Lemförde

period included:

supports the education and vocational training of young
people as well as nature and landscape conservation.

▪▪ SACHS: clutches and dampers for passenger cars and
commercial vehicles

Jürgen Ulderup was the founder of the Lemförder Group,
a company that is part of the ZF Group today.

▪▪ LEMFÖRDER: steering systems, chassis, rubber-tometal components, drive and brake components for

The City of Friedrichshafen – Zeppelin Foundation

passenger cars and commercial vehicles

http://www.friedrichshafen.de/unsere-stadt/zeppelin/

▪▪ BOGE: shock absorbers for passenger cars, steering

zeppelin-stiftung

gears, and
steering pumps
▪▪ ZF Parts: transmission and axle parts

Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation
http://www.ulderupstiftung.de

12

G4-8 Markets served

G4-9 Scale of the organization

As in the past few years, the market regions experienced

In 2014, ZF generated sales of EUR 18.4 billion (2013:

different business trends in 2014. While growth in the

EUR 16.8 billion) with its portfolio of several thousands

North American and Asia-Pacific regions increased

of products in approximately 80 different product

strongly and in Europe slightly, South America suffered a

groups. The company has 113 production companies in

sharp fall in market development. The main growth

26 countries.

driver for ZF was business with automatic passenger car
transmissions and axle systems. The market success of

G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and

the range of 8-speed automatic transmissions in particu-

region

lar is very pleasing.The markets for commercial vehicle

As of December 31, 2014, ZF employees worldwide num-

products and off-road machinery proved more challeng-

bered 71 402. This represents an increase of 5 percent

ing. The Wind Power Technology business unit, which

compared to the previous year, whereby it must be noted

suffered from negative market influences in the previous

that due to the sale of the Rubber & Plastics business unit

years, saw a slight recovery.

as well as the AIBC (South Africa) subsidiary in 2014,
the employees of these companies are no longer included

The European region (Germany, Western Europe, and

in the figures. More than two thirds of employees work

Eastern Europe) accounted for 56 percent of Group sales

in Europe, most of them in Germany. It can be predicted

in 2014, at EUR 10.3 billion. In North America, the ZF

today that the internationalization of markets will con-

Group generated sales amounting to EUR 3.7 billion –

tinue to grow in significance and at a faster rate, a factor

a Group sales share of more than 20 percent. Sales in

which is reflected in the development of the employee

South America totaled EUR 556 million in 2014. As in

structure.

the previous year, the Asia-Pacific region recorded the
largest percentage growth with an increase on the previ-

96 percent of employees have permanent contracts with

ous year of more than 20 percent to EUR 3.6 billion. The

the ZF Group. In Germany, this amount is 95.6 percent.

share of the region in Group sales amounted to approx.

The percentage of women employed by the ZF Group

19 percent. In Africa, ZF generated sales of EUR 177 mil-

is 15.2 percent (Germany 12.7 percent and Europe

lion.

13.7 percent.). The region of North America has the
largest percentage of women in the workforce with
24.5 percent.

Sales share according to markets
in EUR million

Asia-Pacific 3 621
South America 556
North America 3 745
Eastern Europe 927

Africa 177
Germany 5 792
Western Europe 3 597

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Organizational Profile

13

In the face of volatile markets, flexible working time

G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective

models such as working time accounts, temporary

bargaining agreements

employment contracts, and agency work are important

In Germany, almost all employees are covered by collec-

tools to compensate for and mitigate the fluctuations in

tive bargaining agreements. These are based either on

demand and sales. In 2014, a total of 3 638 temporary

collective bargaining agreements or company regula-

workers were deployed, the majority of which (75.9 per-

tions. Top-level executives are included in collective bar-

cent, or 2 762) worked abroad.

gaining agreements under individual regulations (retirement pensions, part-time work for older employees, etc.).
The percentage of employees covered by collective bar-

Employee structure worldwide1)
Number of people

2012

20132)

2014

ZF Group (total)

68 406

72 643

71 402

Europe

49 526

51 792

50 774

39 882

41 900

41 188

North America

6 291

7 238

8 342

South America

4 762

4 790

4 106

Asia-Pacific

6 610

7 540

7 786

Africa

1 217

1 283

394

Permanent

65 557

69 664

68 587

Temporary

2 849

2 979

2 815

Full time

66 557

70 663

69 388

Part time

1 841

1 980

2 014

Direct

34 057

36 291

34 790

Indirect

34 349

36 352

36 612

thereof in Germany

Work contracts

Employee category3)

Employees by gender

gaining agreements in Germany is some 98 percent. Usually, collective bargaining agreements also apply in the
foreign companies based on individual company regulations.

G4-12 Description of the supply chain
ZF produces drive and chassis systems in 26 countries
worldwide. A major part of value creation in production
in our plants is the supply of components by suppliers.
ZF suppliers are normally contractors who procure the
raw materials or raw parts for the products ordered
themselves, produce the products themselves, and in
some cases design the products themselves. The material
share provided by suppliers in relation to sales is some
60 percent.
When selecting strategic suppliers, ZF examines their
environmental management carefully. ZF always takes

Men

62 124

60 549

care of transport of the externally supplied components.

Women

10 519

10 853

This is the only way to ensure transport is organized optimally and environmental aspects are taken into account

Apprentices and temporary workers
Apprentices

1 818

2 085

2 073

Temporary workers

3 566

4 105

3 638

1) E
 xcl. ZF Lenksysteme, number of employees by contracts in accordance with the IFRS regulations until
the end of the year
2) Incl. employees of the Rubber & Plastics business unit
3) Direct and indirect participation in value creation processes

throughout. As part of our freight management, we optimize and pool goods flows, achieving a better capacity
utilization of the means of transport as well as avoiding
unnecessary transports. Furthermore, we consider environmental aspects when selecting means of transport.

Employees by region and gender
in %

Women

Men

13.5

86.5

12.7

87.3

North America

24.5

75.5

South America

8.8

91.2

Asia-Pacific

18.5

81.5

Africa

15.4

84.6

ZF Group (total)

15.2

84.8

Europe
thereof in Germany

G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period
During the reporting period, new joint ventures were set
up in China, with Beijing Automotive Industry Corporation (BAIC) in the chassis segment, and with YTO in the
agricultural machinery segment. The sale of the Rubber
& Plastics business unit to Chinese company Zhuzhou
Times New Material Technology Co., Ltd. is now complete. Furthermore, in January 2015, the sale of the

14

shares in the ZF Lenksysteme GmbH joint venture to the

Furthermore, there is a host of information systems and

joint venture partner Robert Bosch GmbH was concluded

instruments that are geared towards specific risk fields

successfully.

such as the environment, quality, financial status, market
(customers, suppliers/materials management), and com-

In 2014, our Corporate Materials Management estab-

petitive situation. The existing Corporate Function

lished central consolidation centers for sea freight in

Departments also perform principal tasks within the

Charleston (USA), Bremen (DE), and Shanghai (CN), and

context of risk management.

adjusted the global footprint of our entire transport management operations. To prepare at an early stage for the

In the run-up to construction projects, the locations are

growth in North America, China, and India, we analyzed

tested with regard to possible polluted areas, in the event

the regional supplier base and resolved to set up Global

of acquisitions, potential environmental risks of the proj-

Procurement Offices in Mexico, India, and China.The

ects are determined with the aid of an environmental

objective here is to prepare and develop the local sup-

due diligence.

plier base to meet ZF-specific requirements.

G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses
G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle

ZF signed the United Nations Global Compact on May 1,

The Group-wide uniform reporting to the Board of Man-

2012, thus committing itself to the observation and pro-

agement and Supervisory Board of ZF with regard to the

motion of its ten principles. Since joining, ZF has also

early detection and tackling of risks that threaten the

become a member of the German Global Compact Net-

existence of the company is regulated by a Group Direc-

work and participates in exchanges between the member

tive. All elements of risk management are summarized in

companies.

a risk management system. This system is not just aimed
at fulfilling legal requirements; it should also contribute

G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business

towards increasing the company's value by reducing risk

associations

potential and its probability of occurrence. All risks that

The ZF Group and its companies are committed to a

exceed the threshold values with regard to scope of dam-

wide range of associations and interest groups. The

age and probability of occurrence are reported by the

following list provides a representative selection.

corporate departments and decentralized reporting units.
According to the directive, all divisions through to the
individual companies are responsible for the implementation of a functioning risk management process (risk

▪▪ Employers' Association Südwestmetall
http://www.suedwestmetall.de
▪▪ German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI)

identification, risk assessment, risk management, report-

http://www.bdli.de

ing, monitoring/verification). This is performed in agree-

(ZF Luftfahrttechnik GmbH,

ment with the respective Corporate Function Departments. Corporate Controlling is responsible for the risk
management system on the Group level.

Kassel-Calden is a member)
▪▪ German Association of Materials Management,
Purchasing, and Logistics e.V. (BME)
http://www.bme.de

In addition, there are further instruments in the ZF
Group that can be used for early detection such as
monthly reports, strategic and operational planning,
reports from the technical (expert) departments (Quality,
Corporate Materials Management, Corporate Market,
Compliance, etc.), standard audits from Corporate Auditing, and certifications according to the standards from
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).

▪▪ Carbon Composites e.V.
http://www.carbon-composites.eu
▪▪ Compliance Network e.V.
http://www.netzwerk-compliance.de
▪▪ German Global Compact Network
http://www.globalcompact.de

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Organizational Profile

15

▪▪ Chamber of Industry and Commerce HochrheinBodensee
http://www.konstanz.ihk.de
▪▪ Chamber of Industry and Commerce Oberschwaben,
Weingarten
http://www.weingarten.ihk.de
▪▪ Foundation of German Business – Remembrance,
Responsibility, and Future (as a donor)
http://www.stiftung-evz.de
▪▪ German Association of the Automotive Industry e.V.
(VDA)
http://www.vda.de
▪▪ German Engineering Federation e.V. (VDMA)
http://www.vdma.org
▪▪ Association of German Engineers e.V. (VDI) –
Lake Constance regional association (as a supporting
member)
http://www.vdi.de/8078.0.html
▪▪ Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V. (as a supporting organization)
http://www.wiwe-fn.de
▪▪ German Federation for Motor Trades and Repairs
https://www.kfzgewerbe.de
▪▪ German Association of Electrical Engineering and
the Electronics Industry (ZVEI)
http://www.zvei.org
(Member is the Auerbach plant,
Electronic Systems business unit)
▪▪ European Association of Automotive Suppliers
(CLEPA)
http://www.clepa.eu

16

Identified Material Aspects and
Boundaries

the Market segment. The Electronic Systems business
unit also exists. Further companies belonging to the
Group can be found in the 2014 Annual Report on pages
148 – 151.

G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial
statements
The merging of the major German ZF companies in

G4-18 Process for defining the report content

order to create ZF Friedrichshafen AG took place on

To determine the report content, ZF followed the G4

August 01, 2011. Four divisions that manage the opera-

guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The

tional activities as well as the corporate functions for

company performed a materiality analysis which identi-

functional management all operate under this roof.

fied the sustainability topics important for the company,

Furthermore, the foreign companies are operationally

and assigned these to the relevant GRI aspects. The

assigned to the divisions. The four divisions are:

essential topics were determined by means of an impact
assessment, further backed up by a media analysis, and

▪▪ Car Powertrain Technology

assessed in terms of medium and long-term relevance for

▪▪ Car Chassis Technology

ZF.

▪▪ Commercial Vehicle Technology
▪▪ Industrial Technology

Topics classified as relevant from both a social perspec-

A new division was added after the approval of the

tive as well as with regard to their importance for the

acquisition of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. The oper-

business success of ZF are reported on as fully as possi-

ational business of ZF Services continues to be an inde-

ble with regard to the GRI requirements. GRI aspects

pendent business unit, organized in a comparable man-

assigned to other topics are only included in this report if

ner to a division and is represented on the Board of

they have a significant business relevance for ZF.

Management level by the Board member responsible for

Prioritization of fields of action according to social and business relevance


Product safety

Social relevance

Environmental impacts of products



Energy efficiency in production

Water use in production

Employer attractiveness

CO2 emissions in production
 Environmental impact of transports


Waste &
recycling

Occupational health
and safety

Diversity & equal opportunities
Compliance




Biodiversity at the locations

Human Rights

Pollutant emissions in
production

Environmental impacts in the supply chain
Business relevance

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

17

G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 All material aspects inside and outside the company

Material topics

GRI aspects of reporting
[ G4-19]

Materiality within the
organization [ G4-20]

-E
 conomic performance
- Procurement Practices
- Indirect economic
impacts
- Overall

ZF Consolidated Group

-C
 ustomer health and safety
- Product and service labeling

ZF Consolidated Group

Customers

Environmental impacts of products - P
 roducts and services
- Energy

ZF Consolidated Group

Customers

Energy efficiency in production

- Energy

ZF Consolidated Group

CO2 emissions in production

- Emissions

ZF Consolidated Group

Water use in production

-E
 missions
-W
 ater
-E
 ffluents and waste

ZF Consolidated Group

Environmental impacts of
transport

-T
 ransport
-E
 missions

ZF Consolidated Group

Waste and recycling

-M
 aterials
-E
 ffluents and waste

ZF Consolidated Group

Pollutant emissions in
production

- Emissions

ZF Consolidated Group

Employer attractiveness

-

 arket presence
M
Employment
Training and education
Labor-management relations

ZF Consolidated Group

Occupational health
and safety

- Occupational health and safety

ZF Consolidated Group

Diversity and equal opportunities

-D
 iversity and equal opportunities
- Equal remuneration for women
and men
- Equal treatment

ZF Consolidated Group

Compliance

-

ZF Consolidated Group

Human Rights

-S
 upplier assessments for impacts
on society
- Investment

ZF Consolidated Group

Suppliers

Environmental impacts in the
supply chain

- Supplier environmental assessment

ZF Consolidated Group

Suppliers

Product safety

Anti-corruption
Anti-competitive behavior
Compliance (society)
Compliance (environment)

Materiality outside the
organization [ G4-21]

Logistics service providers
and suppliers

18

G4-22 Restatemtents of information provided in previous
reports
No subsequent changes were made in this report regarding the presentation of information compared to the
reporting years 2012 and 2013.

G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect
Boundaries
On September 15, 2014, an agreement was made with
Robert Bosch GmbH, Stuttgart (Germany), to sell ZF's
50 percent shareholding in ZF Lenksysteme GmbH. In
January 2015, the sale of the shares in the ZF Lenksysteme GmbH joint venture to the joint venture partner
Robert Bosch GmbH was concluded successfully. Equity
method accounting was ceased in September 2014. No
changes to the scope of the report result from this sale
because the non-financial performance indicators of ZF
Lenksysteme GmbH were already not included in previous years' sustainability reports.
With effect from September 1, 2014, the sale of the Rubber & Plastics business unit to the Chinese company Zhuzhou Times New Material Technology Co., Ltd. was completed, and at the beginning of 2014, the AIBC Group in
South Africa was sold. As a result of the sale of the Rubber & Plastics business unit in 2014, the employees from
this business unit and from the sold AIBC subsidiary are
no longer included in the employee figures. Only slight
changes result from this with regard to the environmental key figures.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Stakeholder Engagement

19

Stakeholder Engagement

ests into defining priorities for the field of sustainability.
Talks were conducted during the reporting period with

G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged

customer and association representatives, among others.

At ZF, the employees, customers and suppliers, as well as
the owners of the company, authorities, trade unions,

G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and

associations, media and politics, as well as the business

frequency

partners, and the residents at the locations are consid-

ZF is involved in a regular exchange with its stakehold-

ered to be significant stakeholders. An ever more impor-

ers via memberships in associations, in the German

tant group is the potential junior staff, which is why

Global Compact Network, via personal contact with resi-

schools, vocational schools, universities of applied sci-

dents at the locations, with the media, with customers

ences, universities, and scientific institutes can be found

and suppliers through direct discussions as well as

at the top of the list of the stakeholder groups to be

through surveys concerning topics such as sustainability,

involved. As a B2B company, ZF has only rarely been in

with employees via the works council as well as through

direct contact with national, non-governmental organiza-

internal events and Group media.

tions (NGOs) that represent ecological and social concerns. However, as is the case with local environmental

G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through

initiatives that are often in direct exchange with the loca-

stakeholder engagement and response

tion managements, these NGOs equally belong to the

In 2014, we identified the most important issues from

stakeholder groups that we consider to be important.

the perspective of the stakeholders with the materiality
analysis. Apart from product safety, they included above

In order to ensure that we involve a broad, representative

all environmental impacts of our production processes as

range of stakeholder groups in the compilation of our

well as our products throughout their life cycle.

materiality analysis, we performed an international
media analysis during the reporting period. The objective

The other expectations and requirements that are pre-

of this analysis was to filter out the most important stake-

sented to ZF are always broadly similar: They are based

holder interests and the central topics and concerns from

on acting in accordance with the law and regulations,

global social media, trade publications, and press reports

developing excellent and efficient products for the cus-

on sustainability in the automotive industry. The findings

tomers, and demonstrating responsibility for employees,

of this valuation were directly applied in the materiality

the environment and, increasingly, also in the supply

analysis.

chain. The requirements of junior staff that are reflected
in questions about values, future orientation, develop-

G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders

ment opportunities, and working conditions are also par-

Whoever acts in a sustainable manner should be aware

ticularly important to us. We also wish to address them

of the interests of their stakeholders. In a first step, dia-

in this report.

log was initiated with relevant stakeholders in order to
identify the significance of various sustainability issues

As part of our active membership in the environmental

from both an external and internal perspective. An anal-

management committee at the VDA and in associated

ysis of the results from an initial stakeholder survey indi-

work groups on energy management or hazardous sub-

cated which topics must be taken into account and what

stances for example, we actively exchanged information

needs to be done in order to retain the lasting trust of

on current topics and developments with other actors.

customers, employees, suppliers, and society as a whole.
As part of a materiality analysis on reporting in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines, the company also set
out in 2014 to systematically integrate stakeholder inter-

20

Types of stakeholder communication (groups and the media)

Employees

“we>move” employee magazine, Intranet, Internet, internal communication campaigns such as “Year of Energy”, ZF Family Day, Social
commitment/ZF hilft traveling exhibition

Potential employees

Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, Corporate Report,
“Drive” company magazine, ZF website, involvement in trade fairs,
social media, advertisements

Customers

Annual Report, Corporate Report, “Drive” company magazine,
ZF website, brochures, advertisements, customer days, involvement in
trade fairs

Suppliers and partners

Annual Report, Corporate Report, “Drive” company magazine,
ZF website, involvement in trade shows, advertisements, supplier days,
brochures, key purchasing strategy

Politics, associations, interest groups

Annual Report, Corporate Report, ZF website, personal discussions

Educational institutions

Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, Corporate Report,
ZF website, involvement in trade fairs, advertisements

Press and the media

Annual Report, Corporate Report, ZF website, “Drive” company
magazine, press releases, press conferences

Communities

ZF Family Day, press, ZF website, advertisements, sponsoring,
regional trade shows such as the International Lake Constance Trade
Fair (IBO)

Former employees

“Drive” company magazine, ZF Family Day, International Lake
Constance Trade Fair, ZF website, ZF pensioner association

End customers

Annual Report, Corporate Report, involvement in trade fairs such as
International Motor Show, North American International Auto Show,
“Drive” company magazine, ZF website, brochures, advertisements,
social media

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Stakeholder Engagement | Report Profile

21

Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period
Fiscal year 2014 (corresponds to calendar year 2014)

G4-29 Date of most recent previous report
July 2014

G4-30 Reporting cycle
Our sustainability report is published annually.

G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report
Christine Betz
ZF Friedrichshafen AG
Corporate Compliance/Sustainability
Graf-von-Soden-Platz 1
88038 Friedrichshafen
E-mail: sustainability@zf.com

G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and Content
Index chosen
This sustainability report was issued in compliance with
Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and meets the “in
conformity” core option. The G4 guidelines valid since
May 2013 were applied.

G4-33 External verification of the report
The report was not submitted for an external
verification.

22

Governance

assigned directly to members of the Board of Management. The same applies to the responsibilities with

G4-34 Governance structure including committees of the

regard to the North America, South America, and Asia-

highest governance body

Pacific regions.

ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation with
two foundations as shareholders. The corporation is sub-

Since 2007, ZF has observed its own Corporate Gover-

ject to the provisions of the German Stock Corporation

nance Code that is closely aligned to the provisions of

Act that stipulates a dual management system comprising

the German Corporate Governance Code (German abbre-

the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. ZF

viation: DCGK), however, it takes the specific features of

Friedrichshafen AG is led by the Board of Management,

ZF as a non-listed foundation company more closely into

which manages the company, and by the Supervisory

account. Further developments of the DCGK are con-

Board, which monitors the Board of Management.For the

stantly checked with regard to their transferability to the

most part, the activities of the Board of Management are

ZF Corporate Governance Code. The Code was adapted

strategic in nature and comprise both the responsibility

in 2013.

for the corporate functions and the divisions. In this context, particular importance is placed on close networking

The highest controlling body and its committees are

and cooperation within the Group. The operational top-

nominated and voted based on the ZF Corporate Gover-

ics of the divisions and business units are mainly pro-

nance Code. In addition, the Executive Committee also

cessed in the divisions.

ensures a proper discussion of personnel matters and
strategic issues. In addition, the Audit Committee

As of January 1, 2015, the Board of Management has

ensures the proper discussion of the Annual Financial

been expanded by one member with sole responsibility

Statements as well as the topics of compliance, revision,

for the region of North America. This acknowledges the

and planning. Three of the twenty members of the

increasing importance of this region in the run-up to the

Supervisory Board are currently women. Three members

expected acquisition of the U.S. company TRW. The

of the Supervisory Board do not come from Germany.

supervision of the Board of Management by the Supervi-

Five years is the maximum term of office for the mem-

sory Board, whose 20 members are appointed with equal

bers of the Supervisory Board in order to ensure the

representation, is supported by an Executive Committee

independence of the controlling body.

and an Audit Committee which are both composed of
members of the Supervisory Board.
ZF is set up along the lines of a matrix organization
which links the Group-wide competencies of the corporate functions with the global business responsibility of
the divisions and business units. The central departments of the ZF Group are headed by the members of
the Board of Management. The four divisions for business in Car Powertrain Technology, Car Chassis Technology, Commercial Vehicle Technology, and Industrial
Technology are assigned to the members of the Board of
Management. A new division was added after the
approval of the acquisition of TRW Automotive Holdings
Corp. The divisions include the business units relevant to
the respective industry. The Electronic Systems and ZF
Services business units are an exception. They are

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Governance | Ethics and Integrity

23

Ethics and Integrity

together with our Corporate Principles, apply for all our
executive managers at all our locations. Furthermore, the

G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms

ZF Leadership Principles also provide orientation

of behavior

for our employees about what they can expect of execu-

Correct, responsible, and sustainable business manage-

tive managers.

ment and the assumption of corporate social responsibility are fundamental components of our corporate policy.

Business Partner Principles

Compliance is thus an essential element in ensuring the

The Business Partner Principles were published in 2014.

long-term success of our company. Ever since its founda-

In the reporting year, an initial 2 000 or so selected sup-

tion, the ZF Group has been committed to fair and trans-

pliers of production materials were asked to confirm

parent business management and always bases its activi-

receipt of the Business Partner Principles and to recog-

ties on applicable law and jurisdiction in the countries in

nize them.

which it operates. These include our commitment to sustainable development as well as our adoption of basic
principles in the fields of human rights and working conditions, quality and environmental management, health
and safety of employees, fair market behavior, and combating corruption.
Having signed the United Nations Global Compact, we
unequivocally embrace its ten principles of responsible
and sustainable activity. We also observe the ILO (International Labour Organization) core labor standards, the
contents of the German Corporate Governance Code,
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Additionally, the following documents are binding for all
ZF Group employees worldwide:
▪▪ “Give me 5” Corporate Principles, 2011
▪▪ Corporate Governance Code, 2007
(revised in 2013)
▪▪ Code of Conduct, 2008
(revised in 2014)
▪▪ Principles of Social Responsibility, 2011
▪▪ Environmental and Energy Policy, 2014 version
▪▪ Occupational Health and Safety Policy, 2013
▪▪ Corporate Statement, 2013

Leadership Principles
The Leadership Principles implemented in 2014 support
the development of excellent leadership to a crucial
extent. The ZF Leadership Principles define the basis for
our executive managers' leadership work. They constitute a binding standard for management behavior and,

24

Economic Performance Indicators

During the process of drawing up the ZF 2025 strategy,
fields of action in the portfolio were defined that are

Management approach

being further developed to ensure our long-term business
prospects. ZF sees a need for action principally in the

Economic performance

areas of advanced driver assistance systems, autonomous

Independence and financial standing are the foundations

driving, and safety. With the acquisition of TRW, one of

for our business success. Our profitability allows us to

the market leaders in these fields, ZF has accomplished a

make the necessary investments in new products, tech-

major advance that completes its portfolio for a secure

nologies, and markets. In this way, we secure the future

future.

of our company in the interests of our customers, market
partners, employees, and owners. The acquisition of

The pooled strengths of both partners in research and

TRW Automotive Inc. initiated in the reporting year also

development enable us jointly to offer customers

supports this objective and helps secure the future of ZF

advanced, holistic solutions. Both companies profit

as a technology company. This is the largest acquisition

vastly from the complementary product portfolio that

in our corporate history. It extends the technological,

contains practically no overlaps. There are also further

geographical, and cultural range of our activities, while

advantages of our acquisition of TRW: The division of

also increasing the attractiveness and competitiveness

business is much more international, with TRW strength-

of the company.

ening our presence in North America and Asia. Looking
at our customer portfolio, ZF now has a much broader

In terms of its economic operations, ZF aligns itself with

base. The historically strong positioning of ZF with pre-

global megatrends. In doing so, fuel and emission reduc-

mium customers is supplemented by TRW's orientation

tion of drives, social trends such as increasing mobility,

toward volume customers, which broadens our customer

urbanization, and demographic change, as well as an

base. Thanks to the acquisition, ZF achieves global mar-

increasing regulation and general globalization of the

ket penetration as well as profitable diversification, while

markets are central in terms of energy efficiency and cli-

further expanding its technology and cost leadership.

mate protection. The internationalization of the company
proceeds further. Even in previous years, ZF followed

Key figures for management

the manufacturers into new markets with its locations or

The top key figures ROCE (Return on Capital Employed),

prepared itself for new customers in growth markets,

ZF Value Added, and operating profit are used to manage

especially in North and South America, China, and other

financial independence. Furthermore, the key figures of

newly industrialized countries.

free cash flow and gross margin are extremely important
in terms of control in all organizational units.The intro-

In 2012, ZF launched its ZF 2025 strategy process with

duction of further liquidity-oriented key figures in sec-

the aim of ensuring the entire company remains competi-

tors such as working capital as well as the supplements

tive in the long term. Based on megatrends and their

in reporting complete the restructuring of the business

implications for ZF, the Board of Management defined

administration control concept.

top targets that were fleshed out as part of the new strategy process in the matrix organization of the divisions,

Market presence

business units, and corporate functions. This gives ZF

ZF is a fair and reliable employer for its employees that

robust long-term prospects supported by strategic initia-

lives and breathes its values equally at all its locations

tives and actions.They provide the framework for further

worldwide, and communicates them to the wider public.

Group approaches in strategic and operational planning.

We value the varied cultural backgrounds of our employees which enrich our global group structure. At the same
time, we aim to be a responsible employer dedicated to
improving the economic and social situation of our

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Economic Performance Indicators

25

employees right through to their family environment.Our

tion. Its systematic implementation is supported by a

commitment beyond the borders of divisions and loca-

sourcing decision process which ensures sourcing deci-

tions shapes our corporate culture and is the key to our

sions based on total cost of ownership criteria. In this

success.

way, materials management not only contributes to
achieving business targets, but can also take account of

Indirect economic impact

environmental factors such as energy costs alongside

At ZF, we know that a company can only achieve busi-

pure purchasing costs.

ness success in an intact economic environment. The
success orientation of a company must match the devel-

Another component of APS 25 is the integration of sus-

opment of the surrounding and dependent companies so

tainability in supplier selection and supplier manage-

that sustainable corporate governance is possible for all.

ment. In 2014, ZF published a Business Partner Code

This principle plays a major role in our relations with

which will in future form the binding foundation for sup-

business partners, but also in our investments in produc-

plier self-assessments and audits. In the reporting year,

tion materials and capacities. That is why we have firmly

we asked some 2 000 selected suppliers of production

anchored factors of sustainable corporate management

materials to confirm receipt of the code and to accept its

in our Corporate Principles. We see them not as individ-

principles. We want all our business partners to imple-

ual actions, but as a central aspect of entrepreneurial

ment the Code of Conduct in the near future.

activity in our daily decision-making. Our decisions are
based on clear, transparent corporate values. Moreover,

Aspect: Economic performance

we consider aspects of sustainability together with their
opportunities and risks, and we take fundamental deci-

G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed

sions for successful future development accordingly –

In 2014, the net profit or loss before tax as well as depre-

this applies to our entire value creation chain. We build

ciation and amortization (EBITDA) amounted to

up connections with our customers, suppliers, and soci-

EUR 2 044 million (2013: EUR 1 703 million). The pur-

ety so that we can develop sustainable solutions within a

chasing volume of production materials in 2014 totaled

ZF Friedrichshafen AG network.

EUR 3.4 billion. This includes internally purchased materials and directed buy volumes. The value of operational

Procurement Practices

materials was some EUR 3.4 billion. EUR 201 million in

We are aware that economic growth very much depends

income tax was paid to the German government (2013:

upon the general acceptance of our business activities in

EUR 221 million). Personnel expenses totaled

the immediate environment and in society at large.

EUR 4 236 million (2013: EUR 3 979 million).

Another highly significant criterion is customer satisfaction, which is directly linked to the quality of our prod-

6 539 employees work for ZF Research and Development

ucts. For this reason, materials management is vitally

worldwide. Of these, about 1 000 engineers and techni-

important, therefore a trusting and reliable collaboration

cians work at the ZF Group’s Corporate Research and

with our suppliers is a priority. Only then can we guaran-

Development departments in Friedrichshafen (Germany),

tee the high quality of our products as well as ZF's deliv-

and an additional 350 in Pilsen (Czech Republic), Shang-

ery reliability.

hai (China), and Tokyo (Japan). In 2014, we invested
EUR 891 million in R&D. Thus, the target of five percent

Establishing an effective and efficient value creation

of sales for research and development costs was reached.

chain throughout is the declared objective of the ZF
Advanced Procurement Strategy (APS 25) that we are

Preparatory measures in connection with the acquisition

pursuing within the framework of the ZF 2025 group

of the U.S. company TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.

strategy. This strategy contains three sub-goals: increas-

initiated in the year under review and the financing

ing ROCE, total quality management, and standardiza-

26

required for this transaction already impacted on the ZF

weather situations and natural disasters. Because global

Group's net assets, financial position, and results of oper-

warming is changing the energy balance of the atmo-

ations in 2014.

sphere, periods of extreme heat, heavy rainfall, and
flooding can become more frequent and more intensive.

Further diversifying financing resources helps to pro-

That is why a sustainable corporate development

mote and secure the strategic objective of safeguarding

includes early precautions against extreme weather

the financial independence of the ZF Group at any time.

and natural disasters.

Attainment of this target is reviewed on a monthly basis
(see also Points G4-EC7 and G4-EC8, and the 2014

This applies in particular for the ZF location in Passau,

Annual Report, pages 84 and 110).

where the Danube, Inn, and Ilz rivers converge. In June
2013, large areas of Passau were under several meters of

G4-EC2: Financial implications and other risks and

water due to combined extremely high water levels in the

opportunities due to climate change

rivers. The electricity and water supplies had to be tem-

ZF's business is affected in various ways by climate

porarily cut off, leading to millions of euros of damage.

change. It presents certain risks for our production activ-

The ZF location Passau-Grubweg was also directly

ities, but also opportunities for our products.

affected by the disaster, and operations had to be temporarily suspended.

Greenhouse gas emissions
In this context, one of the main factors affecting our

In order to manage potential risks from high water inci-

production activities is the emission of greenhouse gases.

dents of this magnitude, ZF is working intensively on

Operating costs are rising due to ever stricter legislation

creating reliable high-water protection. In coordination

involving tougher regulations for plant approvals. These

with Passau, the water authorities, and the state of

can for instance require even stricter adherence to emis-

Bavaria, ZF is developing a concept for a seamless loca-

sion limit values at the locations or in emissions trading,

tion protection in the Passau district of Grubweg, which

and may demand retrofitting equipment. Reducing

will offer protection against surface or ground water pen-

greenhouse gas emissions is a central element of ZF envi-

etration even in the event of extreme high water.The first

ronmental policy, which is managed worldwide by our

section will be completed by the end of 2016. ZF is con-

environmental management system according to ISO

tributing a large part of the financing and taking on long-

14001. Our declared target is the continuous reduction of

term responsibility for employees, customers, and the

emissions by 20 percent by 2020. This is also how we

entire Passau region.

aim to combat increasing operating costs, among other
things.

We have only seen isolated examples of higher premiums
for property insurance at locations at risk from natural

Losses due to extreme weather

hazards such as high water, storm, or extreme drought,

Extreme weather situations caused by climate change

but they could increase in the future if damage incidents

such as high water and flooding or extreme drought have

occur more frequently. These aspects are decisive factors

so far only affected our production locations in isolated

when building new premises or purchasing production

cases. Nevertheless, ZF sees these developments as a

facilities.

megatrend and is addressing the resulting risks within its
environmental management system and the environmen-

Water scarcity at locations worldwide

tal targets defined in its sustainability program.

Some of our production locations in Brazil and Mexico
are in so-called “water stressed areas”. Permits for water

Finally, suitable precautionary measures must be taken

withdrawal for production are in some cases already

to minimize the increased risk of losses at the locations

restricted in these areas. If the water scarcity persists,

and in the supply chain caused by increasing extreme

this problem could worsen or spread to other regions.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Economic Performance Indicators

27

Resource scarcity results in increased investment costs

tion: It reduces consumption by 6 to 9 percent (up to

for the technical modernization of production equip-

12 percent in the hybrid version) compared to manual

ment.

transmissions. We also impressed the industry with our
AVE 130 electric portal axle for purely electric low-floor

Furthermore, we are currently faced with more expen-

buses, which in 2014 was awarded the International bus-

sive electricity in Brazil. A large part of the country's

planer Sustainability Prize 2015.

electricity supply comes from hydropower, so if water
becomes more scarce, the price could climb even higher.

The development of strong products like these opens up

Such a development could also lead to electricity ration-

new sales opportunities for ZF. At the same time, a possi-

ing which would put energy supply to the locations at

ble increase in fuel or energy taxes may result in an

risk.

increase in logistics costs as well as a decrease in
demand for individual mobility on the market side. We

To enable us to better estimate environmental risks in

can mitigate this risk with innovations in hybrid technol-

certain regions, we are currently launching projects

ogy, e-mobility, and lightweight design. For instance, in

which assess in advance the extent to which a particular

2014 we developed the basis for the volume production

region is subject to a certain risk. The findings will pro-

of innovative lightweight components made out of ther-

vide an additional criterion for our decisions on award-

mosetting and thermoplastic FRP materials.

ing contracts to suppliers, in this way contributing to supply security.

Further influences
The opportunities and risks for our wind power sector

We have identified another risk to supply security from

vary widely because they are dependent on state regula-

long international supply chains. To minimize and more

tion, in particular support of renewable energies.

effectively manage this risk, the ZF Group is working on
localizing sources. The objective here is to reduce trans-

European companies may face higher organizational

port costs and actively contribute to lower CO2 emis-

costs from the expansion of reporting obligations as well

sions. Furthermore, this can limit the effects of failures in

as the obligation to publish non-financial data, but also

the supply chain to the region affected.

from customer requirements for the disclosure of data
with relevance to the environment.

We are also carrying out initial projects to identify robust
methods of determining the emission values and/or envi-

G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations

ronmental impacts of selected products and materials.

Private retirement provisions are becoming more and
more important. ZF is prepared for this and already

Solutions on a product level

developed a series of attractive models for private

Our products consume most resources during their utili-

employee pensions some years ago. The essential com-

zation phase. Within their competitive environment, ZF

monality among these models is the possibility to convert

products even today stand out due to the fact that they

gross income into retirement benefits. All employees

contribute to an economical utilization of resources. For

with indefinite employment contracts in Germany

example, the second generation of our 8HP 8-speed auto-

receive the ZF pension as a voluntary employer contribu-

matic transmission saves an additional 3 percent of fuel.

tion. In every year of employment, the company pays a

The plug-in hybrid transmission scheduled to arrive on

contribution to the company pension scheme for employ-

the market in 2015 is also based on the 8HP transmission

ees, depending on their individual remuneration. Taking

modular kit. Another example is our Get2 rail drive con-

into account actuarial variables, these contributions are

cept that combines the advantages of existing ZF applica-

converted into annual pension components using a trans-

tions with a savings potential of up to 5 percent. Further-

formation table. The resulting company-financed compo-

more, our TraXon modular automatic transmission

nents are provided as an employer's pension commit-

system for heavy trucks is now ready for start of produc-

28

ment and contribute significantly to the retirement

Aspect: Market presence

pensions of our employees. The participation rate is
almost 100 percent.

G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to
local minimum wage

The ZF pension is also linked to an own contribution

ZF is a fair employer that pays attention to a remunera-

by employees, strengthening their personal retirement

tion of its employees that is in line with the market. This

provisions. The employee-financed components are re-

is ensured in two ways in Germany:

insured by an external pension fund.
First, through external benchmarks and market compariFurthermore, since 2012, our employees have been able

sons. With regard to those employed on the collectively

to profit from an innovative pension scheme: By convert-

agreed scale, the locations regularly participate in bench-

ing at least three percent of their gross pay into pension

marks of the respective employers' associations. Employ-

benefits, employees can receive an additional basic occu-

ees are paid more than the minimum standard as per the

pational disability allowance which is free for the

collectively agreed scale at many locations. With regard

employee. The ZF retirement benefits are also aimed

to management, remuneration benchmarks take place at

toward our goal of becoming a more attractive global

regular intervals with service providers. Furthermore,

employer as part of the ZF 2025 strategy. Further

market comparisons are made on a case-related basis

instances of social benefits include payments connected

such as when appointing staff.

to the period of employment such as anniversary
bonuses.

At ZF, temporary and subcontract workers are paid in
accordance with the standard wages that are otherwise

In the Consolidated Balance Sheet for 2014, a total of

paid. Together with its suppliers in Germany, ZF has

EUR 3 803 million in provisions for pensions was

negotiated minimum wages for such workers in five dif-

accounted for. This is approximately EUR 1 074 million

ferent categories that are, in some cases, 50 percent

more than in the previous year. The vast majority of

above the collective bargaining agreement rate. Further-

provisions (approx. 97 percent) affects benefits for

more, ZF is entitled to check that the employees of sup-

employees with an employment contract in Germany.

pliers receive the respective minimum wages or standard
wages from service providers and that legal regulations

Further figures can be found in the 2014 Annual Report

regarding the minimum wage are also fulfilled in the

(pages 126-128).

global environment. Our declaration of adherence to collective agreements which external service providers must

G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government

sign requires that the applicable legal provisions and the

During the fiscal year of 2014, ZF received EUR 4 mil-

collective-agreement provisions applicable to the contrac-

lion (2013: EUR 4 million) in government grants for

tor at the location of its registered office as well as other

investments as well as expense subsidies amounting to

mandatory working conditions are observed during exe-

EUR 11 million (2013: EUR 17 million). Investment

cution of the work order, and that each employee

grants were basically received for investments at various

receives at least the respective collective-agreement

locations in Great Britain, Australia, China, and Russia.

wages as well as any supplements established in the col-

Expense subsidies mainly comprise reimbursements

lective agreement. This declaration also applies to sub-

from pre-retirement part-time work and state research

contractors engaged by ZF.

subsidies. In addition, several projects promoted by the
German Federal Government’s National Electric Mobility
Platform (NPE) in order to further advance developments
in electric drives are currently up and running.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Economic Performance Indicators

29

G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the

shafen. The ZF Forum will include the ZF Academy for

local community

employee education and vocational training and also be

ZF traditionally recruits management staff from within

home to a “glass workshop” for children and youths,

the company's own ranks. This also applies to interna-

which is part of Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V.,

tional locations. ZF has now launched the Global Oppor-

as well as a school students' research center. Further-

tunities and Living Abroad (GOaL) initiative as well as a

more, the ZF Forum will provide a meeting place for cus-

job-rotation program in order to work toward an

tomers, partners, schoolchildren, students, employees,

improved exchange between various cultural back-

and citizens. As part of the ZF centenary celebrations,

grounds and characters. A principle objective of ZF is to

we are investing in exhibition rooms at other locations.

open up international careers for employees of all nationalities and integrate the management and junior staff

At the Passau-Grubweg location, ZF is working in close

into an international talent management at all locations.

cooperation with the City of Passau, the water authority,
as well as the Free State of Bavaria on the realization of

Aspect: Indirect economic impacts

seamless defenses against high water in the Passau district of Grubweg (see G4-EC2). The first section should

G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided

be finished by the end of 2016. ZF makes a major contri-

ZF invests significantly in technical professions. We aim

bution to the financing and in this way takes on respon-

to promote interest and enthusiasm for MINT subjects

sibility toward employees, customers, and the entire Pas-

early on among children and young people, especially

sau region.

girls. To do this, ZF offers its CyberMentor program,
participates actively in the Girls' Day, and runs 'Wis-

G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts

senswerkstatt' (Knowledge Workshops) (see page 55).

ZF is one of the biggest employers and customers in all
regions that the company is active in. On average, ZF

In higher education, ZF finances multiple endowed pro-

products contain around 60 percent supplied materials

fessorships in the Lake Constance region. We support

and products. The purchasing volume of the ZF Group

colleges in Ravensburg, Weingarten, and Constance in

rose along with sales in the year under review, thanks in

technical study courses. Furthermore, ZF supports an

particular to the expansion of business in the regions of

endowed professorship for Corporate Management at

North America and Asia-Pacific. Solely for the procure-

Zeppelin University in Friedrichshafen as well as one for

ment of production materials, ZF maintains a global net-

Automotive Mechatronics (together with other compa-

work consisting of approximately 5 000 suppliers (2013:

nies) at the University of Stuttgart. The total amount of

3 500), ranging from small family businesses through to

donations made by the ZF Group in 2014 was EUR

large groups. ZF calls upon approximately 26 500 suppli-

16.4 million (2013: EUR 10.8 million). ZF also made a

ers for non-production materials (2013: 25 000).

donation of EUR 20 million to the Zeppelin University in
2012 for an upcoming construction project to be com-

Once again in 2014, ZF set up new joint ventures, for

pleted between 2012 and 2015. ZF also provides funding

instance in China with Beijing Automotive Industry

over a period of five years for the Endowed Chair of Pas-

Corporation (BAIC) and with YTO in the agricultural

senger Car Chassis Technology and Dynamics at the Chi-

machinery segment. The expertise that flows into such

nese-German College for Postgraduate Studies (CDHK) at

joint ventures creates new business opportunities for the

the renowned Tongji University in Shanghai.

companies and their suppliers, especially in the emerging markets of Asia-Pacific as well as South America.

The company is also making a further contribution to the
local urbanistic development in Friedrichshafen and

In the reporting year, we also further strengthened the

communication with the city's citizens with the ZF

international development locations. A new addition

Forum, the new ZF corporate headquarters in Friedrich-

includes a Technology Development department at the

30

Northville location in Michigan (USA), in order to meet

Localization ratio

local needs more effectively. The development competen-

in percent

cies were extended substantially in the Engineering Cen-

South Korea

80

ter in Shanghai (China) and a team was established for

Germany

80

advanced product engineering. The research locations

China

73

strengthen the demand for specialists and help build up

Argentina

77

know-how in the respective countries. Basic and techno-

Brazil

72

logical development in the industries enable ground-

Italy

70

breaking innovations in mobility and renewable energies

USA

80

that go far beyond the area of influence of the ZF Group.

Australia

52

Thailand

45

United Kingdom

46

Turkey

42

Hungary

42

Ongoing tax payments by regions 2014
in EUR million
Western Europe

149.1

Eastern Europe

5.2

Mexico

40

North America

10.3

Spain

27

South America
Asia-Pacific

1.3

France

18

63.5

Austria

14

3.1

Russia

24

Malaysia

10

Slovakia

10

Africa
Total

232.5

Aspect: Procurement Practices
G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
85 percent of global purchases for non-production materials (excl. investments) are to be made locally. For 2014,
the local procurement of production materials is calculated using a key figure. The average of all divisions
amounted to 69 percent for production materials.

Czech Republic
Belgium

4
25

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

31

Environmental Performance Indicators

ronmental Manager Committee (EMC) to coordinate current developments and further develop the environmen-

Management approach

tal strategy. In addition, working groups are established
for important specialist areas to perform preparatory

By implementing various environmental protection mea-

work for the EMC.

sures, we fulfill our responsibility toward people and the
environment, which is anchored in the ZF values. This

ZF environmental and energy policy

simultaneously protects us against entrepreneurial risks

We respect our planet’s natural source of life and are

– in the areas of compliance, customer relations, and

committed to resource conservation and the reduction of

reputation – while improving our operating efficiency to

environmental pollution. This commitment to sustainable

the benefit of the environment. In order to uphold our

environmental protection is anchored in ZF’s Corporate

responsibility in business activities and ZF products, we

Principles and is the basis for our work. This results in

are constantly working toward the global implementation

the following principles which are checked on a regular

of legal requirements and internal standards.

basis and are binding for all employees worldwide. Our
executive managers are role models for their implemen-

The conservation of natural resources forms the basis of

tation.

our environmental strategy that is based upon the environmental policy that was adopted in 1996 and has been

1. We are committed to environmentally-friendly prod-

further developed since then. It is globally binding for all

uct design

locations.

Our products are designed to be as energy and
resource efficient as possible. Our striving for techno-

Environmental policy includes major fields of action

logical innovations and excellent solutions also

which are essential for us: climate protection, environ-

includes environmentally friendly product design. We

mental impact of our production, eco-friendly product

are convinced that our innovative strength in terms of

design, and environmental performance improvement.

environmental issues contributes to our competitive-

This policy rests on environmental objectives in the indi-

ness.

vidual fields of action, controlled by our certified environmental and energy management system. The locations contribute locally to attainment of the objectives.

2. We reduce the environmental impact of our operating processes to a minimum
We design our processes to be as energy and resource

Organizational structures and compliance

efficient as possible and reduce environmental pollu-

The global ZF environmental organization covers all the

tion caused by our activities to a minimum. We take

levels of the company from each individual division to

appropriate actions to ensure that environmental haz-

various regions, and right down to the locations. The

ards are prevented and limited in the event of an inci-

Corporate Environmental Protection Officer is responsi-

dent. For this purpose, we use environmentally-

ble on the Group level and Senior Environmental Protec-

friendly technologies for our investments that are, at

tion Officers are appointed on a divisional level. In indi-

least, state-of-the-art; in particular, we actively support

vidual regions, the regional coordinators support in

the worldwide climate protection efforts.

ensuring compliance, the implementation of ZF standards, as well as the control of the environmental man-

3. We continuously improve our energy and environ-

agement system. Our environmental organization works

mental performance

together closely with the Occupational Safety & Health

We implement our environmental and energy objec-

department in order to leverage synergies. The leading

tives worldwide with the help of appropriate manage-

Environmental Protection Officers from the divisions

ment systems, review the agreed performance levels

and regions meet up several times per year in the Envi-

on a regular basis, and, if any discrepancy is detected,

32

we take the necessary improvement actions. For Cor-

Asia-Pacific. It regulates important matters throughout

porate Development projects, we perform environmen-

the Group: For instance, all environmental protection

tal risk assessments.

officers are granted the right to submit a direct report to
the location management or the sequence and cycle are

4. We strive to be a role model on a worldwide level

defined with regard to internal audits.

We want to be a role model in terms of dealing with
the environment and its resources. In order to meet

The Board of Management evaluates annually whether

our claim to excellence, we not only comply with the

the environmental objectives are reached and whether

respectively applicable legal requirements but also

the environmental management is qualified to meet cur-

work on the worldwide implementation of ZF-internal

rent requirements: A Group review is created based upon

standards.

the valuation of the locations and the Group unit for
environmental protection. This review is presented to the

5. We actively involve employees, suppliers, service

Board of Management and is used to derive the strategic

providers, and customers and engage in dialog with

environmental and sustainability objectives for the entire

the authorities and society

company.

We involve our employees in the development and
implementation of our environmental and energy pol-

The environmental management system was extended in

icy. We train and motivate them regularly; our employ-

Germany in 2013 to include an energy management sys-

ees actively contribute to shaping our environmental

tem in accordance with ISO 50001. Since 2014, all the

protection and energy management. Our suppliers and

German production and service locations have been inte-

service providers are expected to comply with the

grated in the certification matrix for energy. As part of

respectively applicable environmental and energy

the energy management system, the locations locally and

specifications; from our suppliers with processes espe-

annually define specific targets to increase efficiency

cially relevant to the environment, we demand a certi-

and take appropriate actions.

fied environmental management system. When dealing with environmental and climate protection issues,

Investments in environmental protection

we engage in a dialog with the authorities and all par-

Expenditure on environmental issues is not calculated as

ties interested on site. Furthermore, we report regu-

costs, but as investments. We invest above all in the envi-

larly on the outcome of our efforts.

ronment-friendliness of technical equipment and its ecofriendly operation, as well as in nature conservation,

In-house environmental protection

landscape care, and a climate-friendly energy supply (see

All ZF locations are obliged to conduct active environ-

G4-EN31).

mental management. In 2014, 102 production companies
and organizational units worldwide were certified in

ZF Environmental Award

accordance with the international ISO 14001 standard;

In order to motivate staff to engage in environmental pro-

this corresponds to 95 percent of the production loca-

tection, ZF has been presenting an internal award for

tions. All production and main development locations

outstanding work in the field of environmental protec-

with more than 50 employees and after being part of the

tion since 1995. In 2014, the award went to the project

Group for more than one year are obligated to align their

“Elimination of phosphating of angle joints” at the Dielin-

environmental management to the requirements of the

gen location. An alternative surface treatment prior to

ZF Group’s environmental management system and to be

hardening makes phosphating of production parts super-

certified within the ZF Group certificate in accordance

fluous. After the reorganization of production, which

with ISO 14001. The Group’s environmental manage-

will be completed in 2015, we will save around

ment system covers all regions: Eastern and Western

EUR 550 000 in material and production costs per year.

Europe, Africa, North America, South America, and

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Ecological Performance Indicators

33

Furthermore, we will conserve precious resources such

Energy

as water, electricity, and chemicals. This will signifi-

Energy procurement and consumption is a major topic

cantly reduce environmental impacts from such factors.

at the ZF production locations. Most of the energy
(approx. 60 percent) is used in the form of electricity.

Emissions

The environmental objectives valid throughout the

The majority of the emissions generated by our products

Group envisage an annual reduction in energy consump-

occur during the utilization phase. That is why one focus

tion in relation to sales. To achieve this objective, the key

of our emissions reduction work is on developing prod-

performance indicator energy consumption per sales is

ucts that contribute to cutting emissions in vehicles (see

controlled within the environmental management system

Aspect: Products).

in accordance with ISO 14001. Actions to increase efficiency are planned at the various locations. These mea-

Simultaneously, we also strive to reduce emissions from

sures, in combination with the energy management

our production facilities. It is a declared objective of the

system in accordance with ISO 50001, enabled us to

ZF Group to reduce CO2 emissions from production in

increase energy efficiency in Germany in 2014 by some

relation to sales by 20 percent by 2020. The starting fig-

ten percent. As from 2015, we will roll out the systematic

ure is the average specific CO2 emissions in the years

energy management system at all European production

2006 to 2010.

locations. An external certification is currently being
evaluated.

To achieve this objective, we have defined three significant fields of action. First: continuous improvement of

Water consumption

energy efficiency in production. In 2013, an energy man-

Water is used at the ZF locations in production, e.g. for

agement system in accordance with ISO 50001 was intro-

surface treatment processes, washing, rinsing, or clean-

duced at all our German locations, which are responsible

ing, as a coolant, or for non-production purposes such as

for some 60 percent of our total emissions. Second, we

sanitary water, drinking water, in the canteen, or during

plan to gradually increase the share of renewable ener-

construction projects.

gies. The third field of action is the installation of lowCO2 plants. For example, at the Friedrichshafen location,

At locations in water-stressed areas, water consumption

we are currently installing a second gas-powered com-

in production is a major aspect because the withdrawal

bined heat and power plant which supplies process heat

of freshwater could be increasingly restricted in the

for production.

future. However, the objective of ZF’s water management
goes beyond reducing consumption in risk areas: We

Transport

want to continually reduce specific water consumption

We design our processes to be as energy and resource-

throughout the Group. To do this, we introduce specific

efficient as possible and reduce environmental pollution

water-saving projects and control progress within the

from our activities to a minimum. Applying suitable

environmental management system, both at location and

actions, we ensure this is also implemented in the man-

Group level. We make full use of all technical methods of

agement of our goods flows for components, both on the

saving water in production processes.

part of suppliers and customers of ZF. By more efficient
utilization of means of transport, we strive to reduce the

Wastewater and waste management

number of transports and actively support global climate

ZF is constantly working toward minimizing the volume

protection regulations.

of waste sent for disposal as well as hazardous waste by
altering processes, optimizing procedures, and substituting hazardous substances in operations. At ZF, wastewater is usually fed into the public sewer system and treated
in the wastewater treatment plants connected to the sys-

34

tem. However, our environmental management system is

as well as disposal and recyclability, and design our prod-

continually reducing the volume of wastewater gener-

ucts accordingly. By reducing material variety, ensuring

ated. Direct discharges into surface water only take place

materials are easily separated, and using consistent mate-

at a few locations where a public infrastructure is lack-

rials, we continually increase the recyclability of our

ing. In these cases, the discharge only takes place with

products. We systematically substitute materials contain-

approval from the authorities and is treated according to

ing hazardous substances. All these principles are

state-of-the-art technology and whilst strictly monitoring

anchored by guidelines in the development phase.

the threshold values. No bodies of water are significantly
affected by wastewater discharges. In Germany, installa-

In 2014, the R&D Committee approved implementation

tions for the handling of substances hazardous to water

of a management approach for managing the materials

are operated according to the regulations of the Water

portfolio in the ZF Group. This approach was defined

Act, and globally, according to the country-specific

particularly by the ZF strategy for expansion on interna-

requirements. In India for instance, the environmental

tional markets as well as in the interests of advancing our

law defines a prohibition on certain processes hazardous

cost leadership by reducing the number of our suppliers

to water within a protection zone measuring many kilo-

and pooling purchasing volume.

meters around supply-relevant surface water. Within the
context of the integrated environmental permit, no sur-

The newly established ZF Materials Warehouse provides

face treatment using solvents may be performed in these

information on almost all existing materials, and will in

zones. ZF is committed to installing water-saving equip-

the future also classify them as approved and preferred

ment that exceeds these statutory requirements.

materials. It will only be possible to use a non-approved
material in future after submitting a release application

Materials

to the Materials Department, which will examine the

At ZF, environmental protection starts with material

material and check its conformity with the fixed require-

selection. Right from the start, in the product develop-

ments. This procedure optimizes costs, simplifies mate-

ment phase, we consider the total lifecycle of a product

rial selection, and guarantees that only materials are

including the factors product materials, utilization phase,

used which comply with technical standards and country-specific laws banning certain materials.

Future process architecture
Material selection and release processes
Process: material selection depending on the component
Input:
e.g. new part, changed
conditions, or new production

Step 2:
Drawing up profiles
of material properties

Step 1:
Systems
analysis

Step 3:
Selection procedure

Output:
Preferred materials
16MnCr5
(Standardized entry according to VDA 231)

Mandatory
Procedure: material release management process
Developer

Preferred material
Input:
New material
profile

Step 1:
Material
selection

Step 2:
Material qualification

Step 3:
Material
release

Released material

Materials warehouse
For clarification, the diagram shows the two materials processes to be considered independently as well as their combination via the ZF Materials Warehouse.

Materials expert
Purchasing

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Ecological Performance Indicators

35

Biodiversity

Aspect: Materials

The production activities of our company have largely
only minimal to no impact on local species. To ensure

G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume

this continues, ZF pays attention to not selecting loca-

Steel and aluminum are the raw materials that ZF pri-

tions that are close to protected areas in as far as possi-

marily procures. Accounting for up to 70 percent by

ble. Furthermore, our environmental reporting system

weight, steel boasts the highest share. A standard ZF

records the situation in protected areas for evaluation by

product, the 8HP70 8-speed automatic transmission,

our environmental management system.

comprises approx. 58 percent steel and 25 percent aluminum. The rest contains lubricating oil (7 percent), silicon

Two locations are in or close to protected areas. There,

(3 percent), rubber and plastics (2.2 percent), and copper

we have taken extra precautions to meet the increased

(1.5 percent) as well as other metals, alloys, and solvents

requirements regarding plant permits, emissions protec-

in extremely small quantities.

tion, and dealing with environmentally-sensitive substances.

G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled
input materials

Product-oriented environmental protection

ZF frequently uses recycling materials in its production.

ZF can make a decisive contribution to environmental

This includes steel from scrap steel and aluminum from

protection with product innovations. Our aim to go

scrap aluminum. Recycling oils are also used in produc-

beyond legal requirements is firmly anchored in the

tion, for instance as hydraulic oil.

development process in corresponding Group Directives.
Thanks to the company’s innovations in the areas of

Furthermore, ZF contributes to a high share of waste

lightweight construction, hybrid drives, and increased

being channeled back into the material cycle via external

driveline efficiency, ZF products actively help reduce

recycling procedures. This especially includes scrap

CO2 emissions in the utilization phase. The high quality

metal/metal chips, waste oil, paper and cardboard, wood

of our global service network guarantees the long service

and demolition waste. As a result of their material com-

life of ZF products.

position, ZF products make a disproportionately high
contribution to meeting the recycling quotas according to

The 9005 Group standard in conjunction with Group
Directive GD 92-13 must be observed during the development of new ZF products. It serves to ensure product
conformity with the environmentally-relevant requirements of the ZF customers and the legal stipulations of
the countries in which the product is to be marketed.
The planned establishment of a cross-departmental committee dealing with environmental protection will systematically pool Group-wide efforts and ensure constant
further development and improvement of our products
with regard to the environment.

the EU End-Of-Life Vehicle Directive.

36

Furthermore, some locations also generate electricity

Aspect: Energy

from renewable sources. For instance, geothermal instal-

G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization

lations are in operation at the Friedrichshafen location

Total energy consumption decreased slightly in 2014. The

(Germany) and Shanghai (China) for building heating.

reasons for this include the sale of Boge Elastmetall, but

At the Schweinfurt location, district heating is supplied

also overproportional energy savings due to the actions

from thermal recycling which generates 40 percent less

of the energy management system in Germany. Total

CO2 than district heating from fuel oil. In 2012, ZF Ser-

energy consumption also includes the energy for internal

vices in Delfgauw (the Netherlands) completely switched

electricity generation, for instance in combined heat and

its energy supply to 100 percent wind power.

power plants (CHP).

G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization
Direct energy consumption in Production is mainly

Energy consumption outside the organization is not yet

accounted for by cutting machines for metal machining

recorded everywhere. However, there are programs and

complete with respective cooling lubricant supply, com-

actions in place in various areas designed to reduce this

pressed air supply, and heat treating installations, as well

consumption.

as air conditioning in the buildings.

Employee mobility
Indirect energy consumption

Last year, we conducted an employee survey on commut-

The indirect energy consumption refers to the electricity

ing practices at the Friedrichshafen location. The find-

used in the Group as well as the heat from a district heat-

ings revealed that the majority of employees drive to

ing network used. Since 2014, ZF has been operating a

work in their private cars. Mainly because of poor acces-

combined gas and steam turbine plant at a German loca-

sibility in many areas, public transport plays a lesser role.

tion that supplies around 25 percent of the energy consumption of the German locations.

Based on this survey, ZF will in 2015 launch various
projects to change perceptions in this area. Central issues

Due to particularly efficient electricity generation, we

will be incentives to use local public transport and bicy-

saved some 35 percent of CO2 emissions compared to the

cles to travel to work.

standard electricity mix in Germany. The process heat
produced during electricity generation is additionally
used as district heating for heating purposes.

Absolute energy consumption 2010 – 2014
in gigawatt hours
3 000
2 500
2 000

204.1

193.6

1 500

750.9

721.0

1 346.8

1 432.0

216.0

226.0

205.4

741.5

845.0

772.7

1 576.3

1 574.8

1 497.9

1 000
500
0
2010
Electricity

Natural gas

Others

2011

2012

2013

2014

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

37

Business trips

sale of Boge Elastmetall, but also overproportional

Since last year, a shuttle bus has operated between the

energy savings thanks to the energy management system

Friedrichshafen and Schweinfurt locations to reduce

introduced in Germany.

individual traffic on this highly frequented route. The
reaction was positive, and good capacity utilization of

G4-EN6 Reduction in energy consumption

the shuttle bus saved some 60 t of CO2 emissions. As

In order to permanently reduce the company’s energy

a result of the successful pilot phase, the offer will be

consumption, ZF is establishing a Group-wide energy

continued.

management system. Since 2013, an externally certified
energy management system in accordance with ISO

Furthermore, ZF has created a carpooling center that is

50001 has been in operation at all German locations. By

intended to reduce employee traffic throughout Germany

implementing specific programs and actions at the loca-

via the creation of carpools for business trips as well as

tions, the system ensures that energy is used more effi-

for commuting. Plant buses are also being deployed at

ciently and consumption is reduced accordingly. The

some locations in China and Brazil in order to take

Group energy management system will also be intro-

employees to work and back home again.

duced and certified at the European locations as from
2015.

Transport and logistics
Basically, ZF is responsible for all transports to ZF plants

Alongside improving energy efficiency, we are also opti-

performed by suppliers. For more details, see G4-EN30.

mizing energy supply itself: After the first successful
operation phase of a combined heat and power plant

Product use

(CHP) in Friedrichshafen, another CHP was built which

The vast majority of energy consumption outside the

has been supplying parts of Plant 2 with electricity and

organization comes from the use of our products. For

process heat since September 2014.

initiatives designed to reduce consumption, see G4-EN7.
The potential to increase energy efficiency are being

G4-EN5 Energy intensity

identified in detail and implementation measures initi-

In 2014, the specific energy consumption declined by

ated. At the different locations, ZF has also appointed

approx. 12 percent from 147.0 to 129.5 MWh per

energy managers and established working groups to

EUR million of sales. The reasons for this include the

Specific energy consumption 2010 – 2014
in megawatt hours per EUR million of sales
200
175
150
125

13.6

100

44.8

75

11.8

14.4

12.6

46.6

42.1

47.0

85.1

89.6

87.4

10.7
40.4

50
80.3

25

78.4

0
2010
Electricity

Natural gas

Others

2011

2012

2013

2014

38

this cuts CO2 emissions by just under three tons per pas-

develop a holistic concept for energy-relevant topics and
corresponding actions, including the issue of energy pro-

senger car over a service life of 250 000 traveled kilome-

curement.

ters.

Energy efficiency was established as a key factor govern-

Measures on modern vehicles to boost energy efficiency

ing procurement process decisions. When choosing new

can compromise comfort in the overall vehicle. The

machines and systems, we place great importance on

interplay of driveline and chassis with low-frequency

optimal energy use. In addition, we have added energy

effects is complex. New overall vehicle models and the

efficiency (e.g. energy consumption, utilization of pro-

close coupling of simulations and testing provide reliable

cess heat, energy-optimized operation) to our technical

forecasts of the effects of vibrations on vehicle occu-

delivery specifications.

pants. In order to support the development of innovative
products even more effectively with simulations, a cross-

G4-EN7 Reduction of the energy requirements of

divisional, centralized computer cluster is being set up at

products and services

ZF throughout Germany. In this way, highly computing-

ZF develops both fuel-saving conventional transmissions

intensive simulations such as computational fluid

as well as innovative hybrid transmissions and purely

dynamics can be completed much faster.

electric drives. Energy efficiency is a significant criterion
of the ZF 9005 standard for environmentally-friendly

Developing products that can make vehicles more energy

product design. With solutions such as lightweight con-

efficient allows ZF to admirably fulfill its product respon-

struction, a better energy efficiency can be achieved in

sibility requirements. Examples such as hybrid technol-

product utilization. The ZF Composites Tech Center in

ogy and electrification in the driveline are described

Schweinfurt (Germany) founded in 2013 deals with the

under Aspect G4-EN27.

advanced engineering of production technologies for
fiber-reinforced plastics (FRP). It cooperates closely with

Aspect: Water

Product Development in a host of projects to develop the
basis for the volume production of innovative lightweight

G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources

components made out of thermosetting and thermoplas-

Water is used at the ZF locations for production pur-

tic FRP materials. For example, in 2014 it continued its

poses, as a coolant, or for non-production purposes such

work on a passenger car rear axle composed entirely of

as sanitary water or drinking water. The water supply at

fiber-reinforced plastics material. If increased energy

the ZF locations usually comes from the public network

efficiency, for instance from reduced vehicle weight,
reduces consumption by 0.5 liters per 100 kilometers,

Specific water consumption 2010-2014
in cubic meters per EUR million of sales

600
400
200

76.8
580.8

139.1

115.3

112.2

465.1

441.0

431.1

0.6

1.8

4.2

800

1.3

1 000

84.6
416.2

0
2010
Untreated water

Municipal water

2011
Rainwater

2012
Treated/recovered

2013

2014

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

39

(municipal water supply). If this is not possible for infra-

Aspect: Emissions

structural reasons, some of the required water is taken
from rivers or underground water (untreated water).

G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
(Scope 1)

Applying solutions to reduce water consumption at the

The latest VDA emission factors have been used since

locations, for example cascade rinsing systems for wash-

the reporting year 2013 to calculate the quantity of direct

ing processes, or process water recycling, we have con-

and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. In terms of the

tinued the trend toward using less water.

CO2 emissions from electricity consumption, the direct
emissions caused by power generation are taken into

G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected

account.

At locations without a connection to the municipal water
supply, untreated water is used. For example, our five relatively small locations in India are located in water-

Total CO2 emissions by ZF dropped slightly in 2014.

Reasons for this are first the sale of the Boge Elastmetall

stressed areas and due to the lack of local infrastructure,

locations. And second, last year a gas and steam power

they work with well water.

plant was leased at a German location which covers
around 25 percent of the electricity demand of all Ger-

The use of groundwater and surface water is docu-

man locations with a lower CO2 emission factor than the

mented in our environmental reporting system. In 2014,

standard electricity mix. As a result, we save 35 percent

five locations used surface water including the Schwein-

of CO2 emissions relating to the amount of electricity

furt location (Germany) that uses water from the Main

used.

river as a coolant. 17 locations in Europe and South
America extracted groundwater for their production

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG)

requirements.

emissions (Scope 2)
See explanations under G4-EN15.

G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused
Reductions in water consumption are primarily achieved

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG)

by re-using treated coolants or process water, using rain

emissions (Scope 3)

water, or by means of optimized sanitary equipment. For

The data on Scope 3 emissions has not yet been fully

example, at the São Bernardo location (Brazil), the treat-

collected. Nevertheless, the Group has taken measures to

ment of process wastewater and the its reuse in phos-

reduce greenhouse gas emissions that fall under Scope 3

phating saves 61 000 cubic meters of water per year.

of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. See also G4-EN4.

Optimized cooling circuits at the Passau location (Germany) led to savings of tens of thousands of cubic meters
of water per year.

G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity
Similar to total CO2 emissions, we have also succeeded

in reducing the intensity of emissions. This is due above
Since 2013, the volume of re-used water can be centrally

all to the operation of the high-efficiency gas and steam

calculated thanks to the introduction of the new ERIS+

plant and the resulting lower emissions. If this develop-

reporting software. The largest percentage of recycled

ment continues in the coming years, we are set to reach

water is used at a Brazilian location where cooling water

our Group target of reducing our CO2 emissions by

from the ventilation system is re-used, allowing a reduc-

20 percent by 2020.

tion in the consumption of fresh water.

G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
The Group objective to reduce the specific CO2 emis-

sions by 20 percent by 2020 is our central initiative to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Among other pro-

40

grams, a Group-wide energy management system was

G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions

launched (see page 33). Objectives to increase efficiency

Due to the sell-off of Boge Elastmetall, which was

are set each year also at the various locations and mea-

responsible for the majority of emissions of solvents,

sures are implemented to achieve these goals. Addition-

these emissions have dropped drastically, while NOX

ally, in 2013, the German locations were certified in

emissions have remained almost constant. Specific total

accordance with ISO 50001. Starting in 2015, the energy

emissions continue to decline.

management system is being expanded to the European
locations.

Aspect: Effluents and waste

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)

G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and

There are officially-coordinated reduction plans in place

destination

to reduce the emissions of volatile organic compounds

At ZF, wastewater is usually fed into the public sewer

(VOC) from large paint and degreasing installations at

system and treated in the connected wastewater treat-

the German locations, and ZF takes these as a basis for

ment plants. Direct discharges into surface water only

action. Where technically possible, we have already

take place at a few locations, due to a lack of public

switched over to water-based paints or aqueous degreas-

infrastructure. In these cases, the discharge only takes

ing procedures. Further measures include self-contained

place with approval from the authorities and is treated

installations and thermal aftertreatment of exhaust air.

according to state-of-the-art technology and whilst

Throughout Europe, all installations that still work using

strictly monitoring the threshold values. Installations for

VOC possess respective balances. Chlorofluorocarbons

the handling of substances hazardous to water are

(CFC) are no longer used within the Group.

designed according to the regulations of the Federal
Water Act (Germany) or the country-specific requirements.

Absolute CO2 emissions 2010 – 2014

800

956.3

970.2

974.9

844.0

1 000

803.0

in tons

178.2

185.0

792.0

771.0

600
400
200

Of which direct emissions

2011

2012

2013

2014

50.0

2010
CO2 emissions

54.0

0

Of which indirect emissions

Specific CO2 emissions 2010 – 2014

51.0

60

54.0

80

55.4

in tons per EUR million of sales

10.0

40
20

44.0

0
2010
CO2 emissions

Of which direct emissions

2011

2012

Of which indirect emissions

2013

10.0
40.0

2014

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

41

Process wastewater is treated before discharge into the

G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills

public sewer system. Water-saving devices that usually go

At ZF, the relevant processes with a potential risk for the

beyond the statutory requirements are installed exten-

release of hazardous substances are essentially surface

sively. In India, the environmental law defines a prohibi-

treatment, carbide treatment, magnesium machining,

tion on certain processes hazardous to water within a

and hardening. At the locations, preventive technical

protection zone measuring many kilometers around sup-

safety measures ensure that hazardous substances can-

ply-relevant surface water for instance. The environmen-

not spill into the ground and endanger the groundwater,

tal permit there specifies that no surface treatment of

even in the event of a potential release in the case of a

products using solvents may be performed in these

breakdown. A Group-wide reporting obligation has been

zones.

introduced in the event of a release.

G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method

In 2014, nitrous gases leaked from a waste acid tank into

The specific waste generation slightly rose in 2014. Rea-

a closed waste storage facility at a German location. The

sons for this include construction activities which gener-

leak was detected immediately and both the tank con-

ate an exceptionally high volume of waste at individual

tents as well as the air in the room were pumped out. No

locations. Furthermore, waste treatment processes which

people were at risk or injured. The incident was reported

were outsourced up to the previous year were integrated

to the responsible authority.

in our own waste treatment and disposal systems. In
2014, one location generated a one-off increase in waste

G4-EN25 Handling of hazardous waste

generation due to process and product changes.

No details.

Absolute VOC, NOx, and SO2 emissions 2010 – 2014
in tons
5 000
1 285.0

4 000
3 000

1 498.0

1 383.0

2 000

929.0

952.0

1 852.3

1 808.6

1 000
0

2010
VOC

SO2

2011

2 141.0
1 782.9
2012

1 459.0
1 599.0
1 661.0
2013

1 550.0
1 759.4
1 019.7
2014

NOX

Specific VOC, NOx, and SO2 emissions 2010 – 2014
in kilograms per EUR million of sales
400
300
200

89.3

82.2

73.0

81.2

100

55.4

56.6

121.7

89.0

0

123.8

110.3

101.3

92.4

2010
VOC

SO2

NOX

2011

2012

2013

81.1
92.0
53.3
2014

42

G4-EN26 Water bodies significantly affected by

achieves additional fuel savings of three percent. The

discharges of water and runoff

plug-in hybrid transmission scheduled to arrive on the

See page 35.

market in 2015 is also based on the 8HP transmission
modular kit.

Aspect: Products and services
In the commercial vehicle market, the ZF Group was

G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of

able to underpin its technological leadership with the

products and services

Innovation Truck: Thanks to intelligent driveline and

ZF engineers have achieved a great deal over the past

steering technology and telematics, the long truck-trailer

few years in order to reduce vehicle fuel consumption

combination can be maneuvered easily and reliably from

and the associated emissions. ZF once again launched

outside the driver’s cab purely electrically using a tablet.

numerous products on the market in the fiscal year 2014.
In the Passenger Car Powertrain Technology division, the

The AVE 130 electric portal axle for purely electric low-

second generation of the 8-speed automatic transmission

floor buses was awarded the “International busplaner

(8HP) went into volume production. The transmission

Sustainability Prize 2015” in November 2014. The modu-

Waste 2010 – 2014
in tons per EUR million of sales
22
0.81

20
18
1.6

16

1.9

1.6

17.0

17.0

0.87

1.15

1.96

0.94

1.81

1.2

1.2

14
12
10
15.9

8

17.7

16.5

18.3

17.1

6
4
2
0
2010
Disposal

Of which hazardous

2011

2014

2013

2012

Of which non-hazardous

Re-use

Of which hazardous

Of which non-hazardous

Wastewater 2010 – 2014
in cubic meters per EUR million in sales
1 000
800
600
400

508.3

423.4

392.0

378.1

371.4

200

42.6

47.7

47.0

50.4

37.5

85.6

0
2010
Sanitary wastewater

109.8
2011

Treated (process wastewater)

92.7
2012

Untreated (cooling water)

93.0
2013

77.6
2014

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

43

lar TraXon automatic transmission system for heavy

tant elements of the driveline for electric vehicles. The

trucks was developed to maturity and the highly success-

MotorBrain prototypes manage without rare earth ele-

ful EcoLife multi-ratio transmission has also been used in

ments, which currently constitute major cost drivers in

coaches since last year.

hybrid electric and electric vehicles. Their extraction is
also extremely difficult and highly polluting.

In the rail vehicle area, customers benefitted from the
world’s first EMU (Electrical Multiple Unit) multispeed

These activities give an idea of what we mean by product

transmission. The Get2 rail drive concept combines the

responsibility. Examples of further product development

advantages of previous ZF applications with a savings

initiatives can be found under G4-EN7.

potential of up to five percent.

G4-EN28 Reclaimed products and packaging
For special vehicles, ZF offers the advanced EcoLife

Within the context of the respective legislation, ZF is

Offroad, an enhanced model of the EcoLife 6-speed auto-

obligated to take back packaging. For example, ZF

matic transmission for city buses. Excellently equipped

assumes this responsibility in Germany by participating

for extreme loads, it is setting new standards for auto-

in external collection systems: Packaging is taken back

matic transmissions in medium and heavy special vehi-

and recycled through a dual system or sector solutions

cles. Based on the successful passenger car transmission

(for automobile repair workshops or for information

modular kit, the high-performance, efficient 8HP90S

technology, communications technology, consumer elec-

8-speed automatic transmission is tailored to the require-

tronics). In this respect, we exceed the level of the statu-

ments of light special vehicles.It can handle up to

tory recycling quotas.

1 000 Nm of input torque and yet is nonetheless
extremely light and compact.

In 2014, a total of 379 000 tons of packaging was
reclaimed at all locations in Germany in accordance

In Marine Propulsion Systems, the product portfolio was

with §6(1) of the Packaging Directive, of which

expanded to include the TOUGH GEAR W 10000 and

320 000 tons were paper, paperboard, and cardboard

the hybrid-ready ZF 3300 PTI transmissions.

(PPC). 130 395 tons of packaging in accordance with
§6(2) were taken back, of which 123 500 tons were

In the agricultural machinery area, the integrated power-

PPC, and in accordance with §7, a total of some

ful ZF-TERRA+ generator module and the new power

3 860 000 tons were taken back, of which around

take-off generator enable electrification of the driveline.

2 240 000 tons were PPC.

Furthermore, ZF diversified its portfolio to meet the

Various vehicle parts are reclaimed through a global

demands of the sophisticated low-wind and high-perfor-

reclaiming system at the service locations and remanu-

mance offshore market. The new generation of 3MW

factured for industrial use. Locally remanufactured spare

gearboxes for wind turbines with a rotor diameter of

parts are available at 77 locations in 36 countries for

more than 130 meters has significantly increased annual

clutches, steering gears, steering pumps, and automatic

power generation. The advanced design of the 6.2MW

transmissions, among other things.

OCTOPUS is making it possible for customers to build
even larger wind turbines in the rough offshore environ-

Unlike classic repairs, remanufacturing involves disas-

ment.

sembling large quantities of products according to a fixed
procedure and replacing wear parts. By remanufacturing

The MotorBrain research project launched three years

units, ZF manages to save 20 000 tons of material each

ago presented its results with electric drives in 2014. The

year. In comparison to producing a new part, remanufac-

researchers and engineers involved developed highly

turing can save up to 90 percent of energy for produc-

integrated electric drives that combine the most impor-

tion. In 2014, our service locations worldwide recovered

44

a total of approximately 15 400 automatic transmissions.
Some of them are overhauled and used as exchange
units.

ZF Logistics always strives to develop new concepts that
can simultaneously reduce transport costs and emissions.
We are making extra efforts to pool transports and
increase the FTL (full truck load) quota.

Aspect: Compliance

Currently, we are also working on a Group-wide method

G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

for calculating emissions in transport. Internal projects in
the area of land freight aim to additionally include the
measurement of emissions alongside cost considerations

In 2014, we committed no offences and were not

in 2015. Furthermore, from as early as 2016, we will take

required to pay any penalties or fines.

emissions and energy consumption into account when
selecting logistics service providers for the freight vol-

Aspect: Transport

ume within Germany.

G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transports
The overall transport costs for incoming deliveries, outgoing deliveries, and other transports amounted to
EUR 262 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 304 million). These
figures refer to the Group excluding ZF Lenksysteme and
can be broken down as follows:
As a principle, the strategic decision was taken in the
Group that ZF would be responsible for all transports
carried out from suppliers to ZF plants. In countries
where this is not yet implemented (for instance China),
we have launched projects to implement this strategic
direction there as quickly as possible.

When selecting transport service providers, we always
consider the company’s “green logistics” credentials.
Before awarding contracts to companies, we first check
whether they offer CO2 reporting, if sustainability is

firmly anchored in their corporate strategy, and if they
use environmentally friendly technologies.
The ZF intercontinental supply chains are to be organized based around sea freight. Again in 2014, air freight
still had to be used due to the tense situation in various
supply chains caused by production start and large sales
volumes. However, the approval process for air freight
implemented in 2013 increased transparency in this
area. As a result, critical supply chains are identified at
an early stage. The appropriate measures can then be
taken to transport the goods by sea freight as soon as

Mode of transport
Share (in %)

Costs (in EUR)

Land freight

38.44

100 736 790

Sea/air freight

33.99

89 094 412

Courier express/post/special
shipments

13.01

34 088 389

8.82

23 116 530

Plant traffic/round trips
Project logistics/heavy transports

4.05

10 604 731

Relocations
(office equipment/employees)

1.51

3 958 866

Rail transport

0.18

484 119

Total transport costs

262 083 837

possible, minimizing the volume of air freight tonnage.
The first action to be taken here is for urgent transports
from Europe to China. In the future, we will take care to
transport materials via rail instead of air freight in order
to systematically cut emissions.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

45

office building concept, which comprises energy-effi-

Aspect: Overall

cient architecture, lighting, and air conditioning, as well
as environmentally friendly printing management.

G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and
investments

Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
In 2014, ZF spent just under EUR 19 million at its worldwide locations on investments in environmental protec-

Evaluation of suppliers regarding ecological aspects,

tion (2013: EUR 22.7 million) and EUR 40 million on the

working methods, human rights, and social impact –

operation and maintenance of environmental actions

management approach

already taken (2013: EUR 37.84 million).

The success of our globally operating company is to a
particular degree based on a professional cooperation

Investments in environmental protection comprise all

with our business partners worldwide. The foundations

costs spent in the area of technical equipment for protec-

of this cooperation are common values and standards.

tion of the environment (water, soil, and noise protection

Observing applicable laws and compliance with recog-

as well as clean air). This category also includes invest-

nized standards of social and ecological responsibility as

ment costs for nature and landscape conservation as well

well as acting with integrity are indispensable aspects for

as investments in energy supply.

trust-based, successful business relationships. The ZF
Group expects its suppliers to recognize and apply the

Among the expenditures for operation and maintenance

Principles of Social Responsibility developed by the

are costs for waste and wastewater management, protec-

Group and motivates them to introduce and implement

tion of the direct environment on the company site, soil

similar principles in their companies. In case of new or

remediation, and regular costs for nature and landscape

existing suppliers, we encourage compliance with these

conservation.

ZF standards in a suitable manner.

In 2014, the environmental management of ZF Friedrich-

Management approach regarding the environment

shafen AG was awarded third prize in the Office and

Our customers demand first-class products that are as

Environment competition of the Bundesdeutscher

ecologically friendly as possible. To this end,

Ar­beitskreis für Umweltbewusstes Management

we have developed and implemented an environment

(B.A.U.M: German Environmental Management Associa-

and energy policy that meets our own and our custom-

tion). We impressed the jury above all with the Passau

ers’ high standards. We also expect our suppliers and ser-

Expenses 2010 – 20141)
in EUR million
70
60
50
40
30

44.8

46.6

42.1

47.0

85.1

89.6

87.4

40.4

20
10

80.3

78.4

0
2010
Operating costs

2011

2012

2013

2014

Investments

1) Differences in the presentation of results in the previous year's report are a result of the inclusion of additional costs not related to the environmental management system, e.g. for development.

46

vice providers to at least comply with the respectively

with integrity. In doing so, we aim to work towards busi-

applicable environmental and energy regulations.In the

ness partners adhering to values comparable with the

case of suppliers with processes especially relevant to the

social principles of ZF as well as the ten principles of the

environment, we demand a certified environmental man-

United Nations Global Compact. Our Business Partner

agement system. We actively involve suppliers, service

Principles were published at the beginning of the report-

providers, and customers in environmental and climate

ing year. All suppliers of production materials and non-

protection issues, and try to engage in dialog with the

production materials are prompted to affirm these princi-

authorities and society.

ples and requirements and to behave accordingly. In
order to disseminate the supply chain sustainability prin-

Management approach regarding human rights and

ciples anchored here, we sent them initially to around

social impacts

2 000 selected suppliers of production materials and

ZF considers compliance with and the protection of

required their confirmation of receipt. Furthermore, the

human rights to be an important foundation of engaging

contents of the Business Partner Principles provide the

in business. In signing the United Nations Global Com-

binding foundation for supplier self-assessments and

pact, the Group has declared its commitment to observ-

audits.

ing the ten principles in which protecting human rights
is a central element. Alongside all ZF departments, this

With the Advanced Procurement Strategy (APS 25), ZF

particularly affects Corporate Materials Management. As

Corporate Materials Management has oriented its strat-

we are committed to establishing sustainable and long-

egy toward 2025. The consistent implementation of mea-

lasting cooperation with our suppliers, we see our suppli-

sures and monitoring of activities are now firmly estab-

ers systematically as strategic partners. This includes the

lished in day-to-day operations. Consequently, APS 25

expectation that they conduct business according to the

now focuses on the requirements in newly industrialized

same principles as ZF.

countries. Our sustainability principles help to consolidate a responsible and reliable supplier management.The

Management approach regarding work practices and

long-term goal is a purchasing strategy which dispenses

humane employment

with materials from critical procurement sources.

We have set Group-wide targets for occupational health
and safety management and regularly monitor our prog-

The APS 25 is based upon the ZF environmental policy,

ress. Besides complying with the respective national

the ZF Principles of Social Responsibility, as well as the

occupational health and safety standards, we work on

ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and

appropriate and suitable Group-wide minimum stan-

implements these principles into the supply chain. ZF

dards for the health and safety of our employees. We

requires all suppliers of production materials to comply

actively involve our employees and their representatives

with these three sets of principles. We have taken the

in the further development of safe and healthy work-

next step by integrating environmental and social stan-

places. We regularly qualify and motivate them so that

dards into the supplier selection process; evaluating

every employee is aware of their own responsibility and

potential new suppliers using supplier self-assessments

their environment. We also expect our suppliers and ser-

and audits.

vice providers to comply with the respectively applicable

In the reporting year, we monitored all potential new

occupational health and safety regulations.

suppliers during the approval process for compliance
with the standards, a procedure we will continue to

Guidelines and organization

apply consistently in the future. 1 300 audits were con-

ZF revised its Code of Conduct in 2013 and, as a conse-

ducted in the year under review at the existing volume

quence, substantiated the requirements placed upon the

production suppliers.

cooperation with business partners, especially those
regarding compliance with the relevant law and acting

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Environmental Performance Indicators

47

External service providers in Germany must sign a decla-

We see the implementation of the sustainability stan-

ration of adherence to the collective agreements which

dards anchored in these principles as mandatory in our

guarantee fair wages, normal working hours, and a rejec-

supply chain and consider it our duty to take appropriate

tion of unregistered labor and tax evasion. This declara-

action if we identify deviations or violations. In order to

tion also applies to subcontractors contracted by ZF and

identify and avoid possible deviations from sustainability

includes the proviso that ZF can check compliance at

standards at an early stage, we require new potential sup-

any time.

pliers to submit a self-assessment according to the Supplier Self Assessment Sustainability template during the

With the ZF Supplier Academy, we created a strategic

approval process.

cooperation and qualification platform in order to promote and support cooperation with our production mate-

Our focus is on compliance with the terms relating to

rial suppliers. Founded in 2011, the ZF Supplier Acad-

freedom of association, fair labor conditions and prac-

emy is now established in the ZF Group worldwide. ZF

tices, as well as the rejection of any form of discrimina-

suppliers have the opportunity to take part in ZF Sup-

tion, forced labor, or child labor, which is why these

plier Academy seminars in their regions. Participation

aspects are addressed, queried, and evaluated in the

provides suppliers with an extensive insight into ZF

forms sent to our suppliers. The self-assessment by the

requirements, standards, guidelines, and procedures so

suppliers also includes an examination of criteria relat-

that they can subsequently apply them effectively in

ing to environmental and compliance requirements.

their companies. One training course for suppliers is the
ZF Production System S40011, which suggests ways of

In the course of the approval process, all new potential

increasing efficiency in production.

suppliers of production materials worldwide were evaluated in the reporting year. 100 percent of new suppliers

With our Energy Efficiency Award, established in 2011,

underwent the self-assessment according to defined sus-

we raise our suppliers’ awareness of sustainability

tainability criteria. No indications of infringements

aspects.

against our principles of environmental protection,
human rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor,

G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were

or freedom of association were identified.

screened using environmental criteria
We are currently analyzing and examining various proce-

Evaluation of suppliers regarding ecological aspects,

dures for effectively inquiring about sustainability crite-

working methods, human rights, and social impacts

ria in high-risk countries within our supplier chain. In

(G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR10, G4-S09)

the long term, we want to use tools to support our sup-

The Business Partner Principles represent values that ZF

plier inquiries. In the coming year, we plan to obtain

recognizes, supports, and communicates to partners.

information from suppliers about their environmental

They specify fundamental sustainability requirements of

and social standards.

cooperation with our business partners. They are based
on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact

Based on the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act, Sec.

and the ZF Principles of Social Responsibility. For our

1502, all relevant production material suppliers of ZF

suppliers, it includes requirements relating to human

were obligated in 2014 to fulfill the disclosure require-

rights, labor standards, occupational safety and health

ment for the use of conflict materials (gold, coltan, cassit-

protection, environmental protection, responsible raw

erite, wolframite and its derivatives such as tantalum,

materials procurement, business ethics, and compliance.

tin, or tungsten) from the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC) and adjacent countries in company products, and to verify their origins.

48

To provide a solution for the reporting and identification
of conflict minerals along the entire supply chain, ZF has
been using a web-based solution since 2013. As part of
the tool-assisted supplier inquiry program, a total feedback of 41 percent was recorded in the reporting year.
The result of the inquiry indicates that the reviewed supply chains do not source products that finance conflicts
in DRC regions. We intend to increase the feedback rate
from suppliers again in 2015.

G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the supply
chain
Evaluation of suppliers regarding ecological aspects,
working methods, human rights, and social impacts
(G4-EN33, G4-LA15, G4-HR11, G4-S010)
See G4-EN32.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators

49

Social Performance Indicators
Labor Practices and Decent Work

Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles describe
the company's fundamental understanding of rights and
principles that apply to all employees. They are based on
our Corporate Principles and are implemented in the dif-

Management approach

ferent countries and at different locations in compliance
with the respective laws and existing practices. Our prin-

Human resources policy

ciples reference, among other things, the ILO Core Labor

As part of the changing market environment, ZF is com-

Standards, the UN Global Compact, and the OECD

pelled to respond to megatrends such as globalization,

Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.

strong growth in the Asia-Pacific region and North
America, technological and demographic change, and

Alongside the statutory framework agreements men-

worldwide population growth. At the same time, highly-

tioned above, the ZF Code of Conduct applies to all

qualified personnel are the key to the company's sustain-

employees worldwide. It regulates matters such as con-

able success. In this respect, attracting and systematically

flicts of interest, courtesies, business and private

further developing talented and highly-skilled personnel

expenses, secondary employment and participations, pro-

is one of ZF's major challenges and a key target of our ZF

tection against discrimination, data privacy, the conduct

2025 corporate strategy.

with suppliers and competitors, company donations, and
the interrelated field of occupational safety, health, and

This strategy is focused on the corporate objective of

environmental protection. The Code of Conduct includes

becoming an attractive employer worldwide. For this

a clear statement on the issue of diversity: Discrimina-

purpose, we defined our strategic pillars Leadership

tion is not tolerated at ZF, and the only factors that are

2025, Competitive Work Environment, and One Global

important for career advancement are performance, per-

Corporate Culture and translated them into strategic tar-

sonality, abilities, and suitability.

gets designed to help us find effective answers to today's
challenges.

The Leadership Principles implemented in 2014 support
the development of excellent leadership to a major

Within the framework of leadership initiatives, ZF has

extent. The ZF Leadership Principles define the basis for

developed and launched consistent leadership principles

our executive managers' leadership

throughout the Group aimed at establishing one common

work. They constitute a binding standard for manage-

understanding of management. These form the basis for

ment behavior and, together with our Corporate Princi-

the two pillars One Global Corporate Culture and One

ples, apply for all our executive managers at

ZF in line with the ZF 2025 corporate strategy. Talent

all our locations. The ZF Leadership Principles also pro-

management and qualifications are supported and devel-

vide our employees with an orientation so they know

oped by promoting initiatives such as international train-

what they can expect of our executive managers.

ing, the establishment of functional academy concepts,
study program funding and PhD programs, as well as the

Employer attractiveness

use of professional experts. These are former ZF experts

Global access to qualified employees represents a great

and executive managers who offer ZF their valuable

challenge to companies. ZF seeks qualified specialists in

expertise and skills over the long term so that this knowl-

all markets, who find attractive working and qualifica-

edge is sustainably secured for ZF. In adopting this holis-

tion opportunities at all our company locations world-

tic approach to management, we systematically monitor

wide. Also because of global market opportunities, ZF

and anticipate aspects of the age structure within the

strives to be a valued, fair, and reliable employer. The

workforce in all corporate areas, which allows us to

varied cultural backgrounds of our employees, their com-

secure the capabilities of our employees and to confi-

petencies, and their diligence and motivation shape our

dently respond to the challenges of demographic change.

corporate culture and are the key to our success. There-

50

fore, we have set ourselves clear strategic objectives: By

time-management models and high flexibility for parents.

2020, the number of international executive managers is

Flexibility in terms of working times is an important

to be increased by 50 percent in the ZF Group and the

topic at ZF that the Group Works Council is also involved

number of women in executive positions is to be dou-

in. A wide range of individual working time and mobile

bled.

working models are already available to our employees at
our German and many international locations. A ZF

The mobility of our employees is inextricably linked to

Group Works Council agreement also regulates sabbati-

this and is therefore growing in significance. In this con-

cals, therefore facilitating both individual breaks and the

text, global mobility and job rotation programs are cur-

care of relatives for an extended period.

rently being developed and implemented in the divisions.
In a pilot project in 2014, we supported employees in a

Actions

job rotation scheme, whereby they changed their loca-

As part of our employee-oriented and family-conscious

tion within the Group for a number of years. After joint

HR policy, ZF commenced construction of a children's

work-introduction periods over a number of weeks in

daycare center in 2014 which will offer places for a total

each country, two employees then swapped jobs for sev-

of 60 children. Completion is scheduled for September

eral years.

2015. There will also be a health center in the new twostory building with a company doctor service, as well as

A further central issue is the safe and employee-friendly

a physiotherapy and fitness area for employees. ZF at the

design of the workstations in order to maintain the per-

Friedrichshafen location has ranked among certified

formance and health of the employees and to prevent

family-friendly companies in Germany since 2006. Spe-

work-related accidents and illnesses. We anchored this at

cific examples of employee support are full daycare in

the beginning of 2013 through ZF guidelines on occupa-

children's daycare centers, special vacation programs,

tional health and safety.

and support in caring for family members.

Ranking

In the Success Factor Family company network, ZF is

ZF's attractiveness as an employer made further gains

involved in a joint initiative of the Federal Ministry for

last year. For example, in the 2014 trendence Graduate

the Family and the German Chamber of Commerce. The

Barometer ranking among prospective engineers, ZF

network raises public awareness of the commitment and

came 16th on the list, rising six places. In the 2014

experience of family-friendly companies in an effort to

employer ranking of the Universum Communications

motivate others to implement ideas and activities for a

consultancy company, ZF ranked 26th out of 100 in the

better balance between job and family in daily working

engineers group. Focus magazine ranked ZF Friedrich-

life.

shafen AG sixth among “Germany's best employers” in
the automotive manufacturer and supplier industry. That

The second ZF future study FERNFAHRER (Truckers),

makes us the first supplier, directly after Audi, BMW,

aimed at increasing overall understanding of the trans-

Volkswagen, Porsche, and Daimler. ZF also made it to

port and logistics industry, was presented in Brussels.

the front of the field in the overall ranking, achieving

Interviews with experts as well as surveys among drivers

31st place. Equally, a more than 25 percent increase in

and apprentices create a differentiated picture of the

job applications in Germany compared to the previous

future challenges for the transport industry. According to

year proves that ZF is a sought-after employer.

this, changing values in society are also affecting the profession of driver, and the “king of the road” image will

Flexible working

soon be a thing of the past. In addition, plannability and

We value individual development opportunities and com-

the compatibility of family and job are becoming ever-

patibility of work and family. Thus, we systematically
create family-friendly working structures that come with

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

51

more important. As a globally acting company, ZF

standards of health and safety. We involve our employees

depends on efficient and reliable logistics, and will

and their representatives in the further development of

adjust to these demands.

safe and healthy workplaces.We regularly qualify and
motivate them so that every employee is aware of their

Employer-employee relationship

responsibility for themselves and others. We also expect

The applicable legislation around the globe as well as the

our suppliers and service providers to comply with the

CSR guidelines that apply for ZF worldwide form the

respectively applicable occupational health and safety

basis for our cooperation with our employees' interest

regulations.

groups. The CSR guidelines specify that the establishment of employee or trade union interest groups is not to

Our international occupational safety management is

be questioned at ZF even if the national standard in the

controlled by our occupational health and safety commit-

country does not fully conform with the ILO standards.

tee consisting of coordinators from the various divisions

Our guidelines state the following with regard to this

and regions, as well as by the guidelines the committee

matter: “Every ZF employee is entitled to join a trade

has developed on all major issues. To aid the compilation

union and to found a workers' representation in the com-

of risk assessment reports and accident management, we

pany without prior approval. No employee or employee

are implementing an IT solution that is being succes-

representative shall be disadvantaged as a consequence

sively rolled out following a test phase at the end of

of exercising his or her rights in this respect. ZF respects

2014. A team of machine safety experts formed in 2013

the right to collective bargaining and negotiations (ILO

defines key processes and interfaces and draws up good-

Convention No. 98) for the regulation of working condi-

practice examples on how to source, commission, and

tions and strives for a constructive cooperation marked

retrofit machinery. There is also a Group-wide approval

by mutual trust and respect.” Working on this basis, ZF

checklist for new machinery and plant which creates

has for many years enjoyed open and constructive coop-

uniform approval standards and is enthusiastically wel-

eration with employee representatives characterized by

comed by our safety experts.

trust and respect.
In our Integrated Management System (IMS), occupa-

Occupational health and safety

tional safety is guaranteed based on the international

For ZF, occupational safety as well as the preservation

standard BS OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and

and promotion of our employees' health are top priori-

Safety Assessment Series). The introduction of OHSAS is

ties. That is why we have firmly anchored occupational

still voluntary at ZF. However, the gradual increase in

health and safety in our corporate objectives since 2013.

the share of the certified Group companies is a fixed element of the occupational health and safety objectives.

The issue of prevention plays a key role here. We regu-

The international occupational safety management sys-

larly assess the risks at our workstations, initiate the nec-

tem at ZF was expanded again in 2014 to nine locations

essary measures, and check whether they have been

in the Group (2013: seven). Locations which have

implemented efficiently. We use state-of-the-art technol-

applied for inclusion in the OHSAS matrix in 2015

ogy and knowledge. When planning and procuring

include 17 North American locations, plus seven in the

machines and work equipment, occupational safety and

Asia-Pacific region, South America, and Europe.

health protection criteria are essential.

Accident reduction program launched
We have set ourselves Group-wide targets for occupa-

Despite all our efforts, we were not able to reach our tar-

tional health and safety management and regularly moni-

get of significantly reducing the accident rate of our

tor our progress. Besides complying with the respective

employees. Therefore, the Board of Management in

national occupational health and safety standards, we

December 2014 passed an ambitious global accident

work on appropriate and suitable Group-wide minimum

reduction program that defines a clear target: By 2025,

52

all locations must reduce their accident rate (accidents

ArbMedVV

resulting in one or more lost days per million working

Especially significant is the revised Occupational Health

hours) to less than five. This is equivalent to a reduction

Care Ordinance (ArbMedVV). Some of the changes con-

of 60 to 70 percent compared to today's figures. As most

tained here represent a paradigm shift in the necessary

accidents are caused by incorrect behavior, we can only

procedures which many company members have to

achieve our objective by changing the safety culture.

implement. There is a key emphasis on personal respon-

That is why executive managers must train their employ-

sibility for obtaining information. For instance, preven-

ees to work more safely and convince them to act in the

tive medical checkups with subsequent presentation of

proper way and help formulate best safety practices on

the findings to the employer are no longer required;

their own initiative.

instead employers and employees agree on the extent of
preventive medicine. This is not only a fundamental

Core elements of the Board of Management resolution on

change for the medical staff performing such checkups,

global accident management are:

but also for employees, HR departments, and executive
managers. It requires notification and explanation for

▪▪ Establishment of a worldwide organizational structure

everybody involved. To distribute this information effi-

with Safety Officers subordinate to the Location Man-

ciently and in line with the law, the Central Health depart-

agement at all locations

ment drew up an easily understandable and target-group-

▪▪ Definition of and compliance with globally uniform

specific information package which is available online or

minimum standards, including accident management

from the central functions (such as the Health Committee

standards, binding Group key figures and reporting

and the Human Resources Council).

▪▪ Accident management with monthly review of the KPI
as a management instrument at Group and location

Health management

management level

In 2014, a strategy was developed that provided the basis

▪▪ Local actions to permanently reduce accident numbers

for useful coordination to achieve synergies from the

and severity, managed by our regional and division

large number of decentralized activities in health man-

coordinators

agement. Following a decision by the Human Resources

▪▪ Early and regular participation of the Safety Officers

Council, the Central Health department is now responsi-

in the planning, procurement, and operation of

ble for central coordination of health management. In

machines, facilities, and buildings

order to involve other key organizational units, the

▪▪ Regular safety inspections by representatives of the
Location Management
▪▪ Recording of near-accidents
This program is supplemented by modular Safety Leadership training courses for executive managers.

Changes to the framework regulations
There are numerous laws, regulations, and rules in Germany for ensuring occupational health and safety. Currently, government regulations are noticeably gaining in
importance compared to the rules of the employers' liability insurance association (BGV). This means BGV rules
are being rolled back and state regulations passed.

Test Bay Safety Project
ZF innovations are subject to stringent functional and
load tests extremely early in the development process
to ensure they meet the necessary safety requirements. However, the 2 200 or so employees in 24 different test bays are still exposed to a certain risk during work with these prototypes. To minimize this
risk, the Test Bay Safety (SiP) project with a 30-strong
ZF team tackling the issue was created in 2009. In
2014, it was recognized for its outstanding successes
with an award (Schlauer Fuchs) from the Timber and
Metal Industry Employers' Liability Insurance Association (BGHM).

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

53

implementation concept provides for the establishment

is to achieve systematic global advanced training of

of bodies which will supplement the existing Health

employees with technical training programs derived

Committee. This means the Occupational Medicine

from the ZF 2025 strategy. Various ZF-internal acade-

expert group will in the future be responsible for medical

mies offer employees in Corporate Materials Manage-

topics in a narrower sense, while the interdisciplinary

ment, Corporate Quality, Corporate Finance, IT, and

Health Management expert group will deal with fields of

other associated functions an extensive range of

activity in health management identified in the strategy

advanced training opportunities. After again significantly

development process.

boosting this program internationally in 2014, we will in
the future complete it by setting up further academies.

Wherever necessary, we aim to supplement local requirements at all locations with minimum ZF medical stan-

All qualification programs are systematically evaluated.

dards and to monitor their implementation. That is why

Within the framework of a continuous improvement pro-

we drew up and approved checklists for the definition

cess, both participants and trainers submit a valuation

and checking of indispensable minimal medical stan-

after every event. The individual valuations form the

dards in 2014. The rollout is scheduled for 2015.

basis for regular reviews and appropriate revisions. We
select external service suppliers such as training course

Education and vocational training

providers and trainers according to fixed criteria and a

Qualified personnel are the foundation of the company's

tough selection process carried out jointly by the special-

sustainable success. In this respect, attracting and sys-

ist department and Purchasing.

tematically further developing talented and highly-skilled
personnel is among the major challenges faced by ZF in

Close cooperation between HR Development, ZF Group

a constantly changing market, and a key target of the ZF

and the HR Development departments of the individual

2025 corporate strategy.

divisions, regions, and technical (expert) departments
standardized and permanently strengthened operational

Leadership excellence is one of the strategic targets of

processes in HR development in 2014. By establishing

the ZF Group. Therefore, we completely revised all of

cross-divisional working groups, we achieved close coordi-

our management development programs and introduced

nation of the areas involved with the objective of effective

the first programs in 2014. To promote a uniform

qualification of employees and executive managers at all

approach in human resources management, we intro-

locations.

duced new, globally binding leadership principles and
implemented them during large group meetings with

Programs for school pupils and students

executive managers. Additionally, we are systematically

We again increased our international training capacities.

expanding leadership competencies to meet future strate-

For example, we intensified our cooperation with col-

gic challenges by integrating executive manager develop-

leges and universities in China, the USA, and several

ment into the ZF Strategy 2025.

European countries, along with further efforts to internationalize our trainee program. The number of applica-

Talent management and qualifications are also supported

tions for our trainee program from abroad has risen con-

and strategically developed by promoting initiatives such

siderably. In order to prepare Corporate Materials

as international training, the establishment of functional

Management for future global growth, we launched the

academy concepts, study program funding, and the ZF

strategic initiative “Frontloading Materials Management

PhD program.

Experts”. The objective is to recruit new employees in
Asia and America above and beyond current require-

As part of the ZF Academy Model, we will promote the

ments, to train them, and prepare them for the future

specialist qualification of executive managers and

assignments in Materials Management via project tasks.

employees in all Corporate Functions. The objective here

54

In 2014, ZF hosted the German National Mathematics

udice-free corporate culture. With this voluntary commit-

Competition, and again organized the Lemförder Dialog,

ment, we pledge to actively promote diversity in our

an exchange platform for representatives from education,

organization.

politics, and business. These initiatives, aimed at attracting young people to natural sciences and technical sub-

Tackling the subject of inclusion, ZF organized a special-

jects, are extremely important to ZF.

ist conference on the professional potential of people in
the autism spectrum. They frequently have special skills

ZF is also committed to the CyberMentor program

and talents – and yet face enormous difficulties in the

designed to enthuse girls for professions in the MINT

labor market. At the invitation of ZF, experts set out ways

area (mathematics, computer science, natural sciences,

in which both the people affected and companies can

and technology) and simultaneously, ZF wants to support

benefit from inclusion.

them with personal mentoring. A total of 800 girls take
part every year throughout Germany. In 2014, eleven

In order to remain an esteemed and coveted employer,

female ZF engineers acted as mentors for the program.

we value individual development opportunities and the

ZF again took part in the Girls' Day 2014, presenting a

reconciliation of work and family. To this end, we offer a

program for employees' daughters that showed them in a

variety of arrangements such as flexible working time

cross-generational exchange how fascinating technical

models or the possibility of mobile working. More than

subjects can be.

130 female executive managers came to Friedrichshafen
for the 2014 Global Women Leadership Summit to dis-

The Wissenswerkstätten (Knowledge Workshops) at the

cuss their personal career experience, to report on exam-

ZF locations continue to be very popular. So far, more

ples of best practice, and to debate the issues. The ideas

than 13 000 children and youngsters have gained hands-

they came up with, such as a mentoring program, job

on experience in the world of technology in the technical

rotation, and more flexible working time models, are cur-

classrooms. Further educational facilities have already

rently being implemented. We are giving implementation

been opened at other German ZF locations (Schweinfurt,

of the mentoring program top priority. That is why a

Passau, and Saarbrücken). In the course of 2015, another

pilot program is starting in 2015 for the female executive

Wissenswerkstatt will open its doors for the ZF locations

managers in the Group. This will be followed by the roll-

in Northern Germany near Osnabrück.

out of a mentoring program open equally to men and
women.

Diversity, equal opportunities, and equal pay
Within the framework of leadership initiatives, ZF devel-

ZF is present in many countries of the world and

oped and implemented consistent leadership principles

embraces the diversity of cultures and people. We foster

throughout the Group aimed at establishing one common

the exchange of thoughts, ideas, and methods as well as

understanding of management and forming the basis for

understanding between cultures and people. Our Corpo-

One Global Corporate Culture and One ZF in line with

rate Principles as well as the ZF Leadership Principles

the ZF 2025 corporate strategy. All executive managers

include a clear stand on the issue of diversity: At ZF,

in the Group take part in training courses on the ZF

employees are not discriminated against on the basis of

Leadership Principles.

skin color, gender, age, nationality, religious denomination, social background, disability, or sexual preferences.

We believe that diversity and appreciation of this diver-

This applies to the recruitment of new employees, the

sity have a positive effect on ZF and the society in Ger-

existing employment relationship, as well as the profes-

many. That is why in 2014, we became a member of the

sional advancement at ZF. The only characteristics that

Diversity Charta and now belong to a group of approxi-

are important here are performance, personality, skills,

mately 1 950 signatories dedicated to an embracing, prej-

and qualification.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

55

ability coverage, as well as a tax-deferred retirement

Aspect: Employment

plan. All employees and their families in Brazil receive

G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover

health insurance, dental care, life insurance, and medica-

The ZF Group has been recording the quota of (volun-

tion subsidies. There are also benefits for full-time

tary) labor turnover since 2013. As in the previous year,

employees, such as profit-sharing, a six-month leave

it differed greatly from region to region. While it

period for pregnant women, food subsidies, and a shuttle

declined in almost all regions, it increased to 9.7 percent

service to the workplace. In Germany, ZF offers private

in Asia-Pacific, remaining overall at the same level as in

disability coverage for cases of need. Employees have the

the previous year.

advantage of special conditions and can normally take
out insurance without a medical checkup.This is available for employees and apprentices as well as their

Employee turnover1)
in %

immediate family members.
2013

2014

1.5

1.4

G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave

0.5

0.5

Support for young parents is something we cherish at ZF.

North America

7.0

6.2

That is why we are for instance building a ZF children's

South America

2.1

1.1

daycare center with 60 places for employees' children.

Asia-Pacific

8.0

9.7

In 2014, a total of 945 employees took parental leave;

Africa

6.5

2.3

783 were male and 162 female. A total of 961 employees

Total

2.8

2.8

returned from parental leave; 819 were male and

Europe
thereof in Germany

1) Employees in permanent contract that have voluntarily resigned in ratio to the average number of
employees, in percent

142 female.

Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees

G4-LA4 Notice periods regarding significant operational

In many countries, the ZF social and health insurance

changes

benefits are above the level as required by law. In 2014,

Traditionally, codetermination plays an important role at

the global review of the company's pension plans drawn

ZF. The employee representatives and the Board of Man-

up in 2013 was examined in more depth with regard to

agement engage in a regular dialog based on trust. As a

financial aspects.

result, ZF employee representatives learn of important
operational changes promptly and extensively. All legal

There are also country-specific company benefits based

obligations are adhered to. The Group Works Council

on national cultural norms and the extent to which such

(GWC) unites all locations in Germany in a single body.

benefits need to be paid above and beyond the basic state

The European Works Council (EWC) represents all loca-

benefits. For example, it is the custom in China that

tions and subsidiaries in the European region. It is

someone who wants to marry and have a family must

always informed and consulted with regard to changes

own their own house. To support its employees in this,

that affect the company as a whole or at least two enter-

ZF China pays a bonus as part of the monthly salary

prises or companies in different states located within its

which benefits all employees. ZF North America offers

scope. The topics that are essentially dealt with in the

comprehensive insurance coverage for all full-time

exchange and the discussions include fundamental ques-

employees and their families. This includes a health

tions regarding corporate development, site closures and

insurance policy that also covers prescription medica-

relocations, investments, organizational changes, and

tion. In addition, the company offers special policies cov-

employee issues.

ering dental and vision treatment. In addition, employees
are provided long-term and short-term occupational dis-

56

Aspect: Occupational health and safety

independent contracting parties are not included. We are
at present examining the extent to which accident report-

G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in

ing can be extended to agency workers.

health and safety committees
The Law of Occupational Health and Safety that stipu-

Occupational diseases

lates the organization of occupational health and safety

Noise-induced hearing loss (BK 2301) was the most fre-

committees applies at the German locations. Members of

quently reported occupational disease (OD, German

the works councils are also represented in these commit-

abbr. BK) among ZF employees. This is not surprising for

tees. Prior to the meetings of the occupational health and

a metal-processing company. In 2014, 18 cases were iden-

safety committees, specialists for occupational safety and

tified (2013: 28). Most of the identified cases in 2014

health, medical officers, and representatives of the

were reported at the locations of Schweinfurt (8, 2013:

works council together with the responsible executive

13) and Saarbrücken (4, 2013: 8), followed by Passau

managers carry out inspections and audits to gain an

(3, 2013: 4). As noise-induced hearing loss usually devel-

insight into the current state and need for change.

ops over years of exposure to noise, the latest figures of
detected occupational diseases do not necessarily reflect

G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and

current working conditions. In recent years, we have

work-related fatalities

implemented several measures to reduce noise emissions

Rate of accidents

(see G4-LA7).

ZF places great value on employee health and safety. To
monitor this, we use accident statistics to record all acci-

Furthermore, two cases of mesothelioma caused by

dents that occur at work and result in one or more days

asbestos (BK 4105) were recognized in 2014 as well as

of absence. The working days lost recorded in the report-

one work-related skin disease. The company's medical

ing year amounted to 24 348 days, which was an

officer services are particularly aware of work-related

increase of 5.2 percent. The 1 711 work accidents that

skin diseases as when symptoms occur, the spread can

caused these working days lost are equivalent to an acci-

often be avoided before it develops into an occupational

dent rate of 13.5 per one million working hours. This is a

disease. In 2014, 74 employees were reported to have

reduction by 2.8 percent, or similar to the previous year,

suspected cases of an occupational-related skin disease

but it is still higher than the ZF target values. To protect

(BK 5101), but only one case was confirmed. In nearly all

employee health, the Board of Management launched

of the rejected cases, benefits were provided in accor-

the initiative for global accident management described

dance with § 3 of the Occupational Disease Regulations.

on page 53.
Most accidents occurred in Europe, mainly in Germany.
For the third year in succession, the North American
region improved and achieved a model accident rate of
4.8, demonstrating the improvement potential of actions
initiated by ZF. The Asia-Pacific region records the lowest accident rate, however it has the highest level of accident severity in the Group. As in the previous year, there
were again no work-related fatalities in the Group.
In Germany we started rollout of an accident management software which will enable a breakdown of accident data according to gender as from 2015. Currently,

Accident rate LTAR
Accidents with working days lost per one million working hours
2012

2013

2014

EMEA

17.2

16.6

17.8

 
thereof in Germany

18.3

17.1

19.4

 thereof Europe excluding
Germany

11.0

14.6

11.4

North America

5.01)

8.0

4.8

South America

13.0

11.7

12.6

Asia-Pacific
ZF Group (total)
1) without Mexico

4.5

4.8

3.5

14.1

13.6

13.5

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

57

A breakdown according to gender shows that all occupa-

People who take business trips to countries with

tional diseases recognized in 2014 affected men. This

increased health risks including possible infectious dis-

must be understood in the context of the fact that the

eases receive obligatory preventive care in the form of

types of work which can typically cause occupational dis-

extensive travel-related medical advice or checkups,

eases are traditionally mainly performed by men.

including corresponding vaccination options.

G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases

G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal

There are no indications of groups of employees who

agreements with trade unions

have a high rate or risk of disease due to their work. Due

The codetermination practiced at the German ZF loca-

to the statutory appointment of company medical offi-

tions also applies in the field of health and safety at

cers in Germany, an adequate overview of conditions is

work. Close cooperation between the Works Councils

available here.

and the Group Works Council takes place with regard to
these topics.

The risks of occupational diseases (see G4-LA6) and
work-related health problems typical in the metalwork-

Occupational health and safety topics are part of the

ing industry are known, and preventive as well as inter-

Group Directives and guidelines steered by the various

vention measures are in place. For instance, the recog-

locations. In Germany, their approval process provides

nized key indicator method is used to evaluate strains on

for the participation of employee representatives in top-

the muscular-skeletal system at the workplace, and cor-

ics subject to codetermination. On a location level, there

responding prevention and intervention measures are

are various guidelines in existence covering occupational

taken in the form of ergonomic design of workplaces.

health and safety. A Group Directive regarding occupational health and safety was prepared in 2014, and a

We provide the required skin protection agents to pre-

draft for the directive is planned for 2015. However, rati-

vent work-related skin diseases, and stipulate their use in

fication may be delayed because of the integration of the

skin protection plans. Whenever employees suspect they

new structures and processes from the acquisition of

have health problems, they can consult the company

TRW.

doctor or medical service during working hours. All
employees have the option of attending additional health

Aspect: Training and Education

checkups alongside the mandatory checkups at ZF.

G4-LA9 Average hours of training
Noise-induced hearing loss usually develops over years

ZF is one of the largest training companies in Germany

of exposure to severe noise. Possible preventive mea-

and attaches a great deal of importance to qualified

sures include technical noise limitation such as those

apprenticeships. In 2014, approximately 7 000 applica-

successfully implemented at our Friedrichshafen loca-

tions were received for technical and commercial

tion. Strain on the inner ear is also reduced by wearing

apprenticeships. Even during an apprenticeship, an inter-

suitable personal protective equipment (PPE). This hear-

national assignment is possible. In 2014, ZF employed

ing protection equipment is available to all employees

some 1 900 apprentices at 13 locations in Germany

affected, and wearing it is mandatory in areas affected

(including ZF Lenksysteme) – around 200 of them are

by noise.

students completing a dual study program at Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University (DHBW). The

In the metalworking industry, the risk of occupationally-

young target group can choose from 35 different appren-

related infectious diseases is negligible. Only the medical

ticeships and DH courses of study. In 2014, 539 young

personnel working in the medical service is exposed to

people started an apprenticeship or dual study program

this risk, and they are entitled to free vaccinations.

at ZF. Thus, once again in 2014, ZF Friedrichshafen AG
ranked among Germany's major providers of training

58

and apprenticeship opportunities in Germany. As ZF is

academies dedicated to Corporate Materials Manage-

keen to offer all its apprentices a job after they qualify,

ment and Corporate Quality were significantly expanded

the number of ZF apprenticeship places has remained

and new academies for employees of Corporate Finance

stable for years. Approximately 95 percent of former

and IT were added to the portfolio. We also developed

apprentices are hired.

initial concepts for establishing a Production and an HR
academy. The portfolio available more than doubled in

At its Gray Court (South Carolina, USA) location, ZF has

2014, and it will continue to grow vigorously in coming

teamed up with the Piedmont Technical College to imple-

years, above all in the North America, South America,

ment a system similar to the German model of combined

and Asia-Pacific regions.

degree programs. The training program will in the future
be extended to ZF locations throughout Asia.

With the Learning on the Web (LiN) vocational training
initiative, ZF is supporting qualification measures with

ZF remains one of the three founding companies

new media. Via this platform, employees are able to com-

involved in introducing the Michigan Advanced Techni-

pile contents according to their own needs.

cian Training (MAT²®) program. The program is developed according to German training standards and moni-

In 2013, ZF began to roll out the new pro»motion pro-

tored by the German-American Chamber of Commerce

gram environment. The new pro»motion programs are

and the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce

geared to people with special potential in the ZF Group.

(IHK). Currently, ZF is involved in the apprenticeship

This is how ZF ensures globally consistent and continu-

programs for the professions of mechatronics technician,

ous manager development across various management

IT specialist, and technical product designer at the

levels. We systematically support talents, preparing them

Northville and Lapeer locations. ZF Services is at present

for their next management function. This ensures their

making initial investigations in Vernon Hills, Illinois.

effectiveness in the new position and improves leader-

MAT²® has the potential of establishing itself as a

ship quality in the entire Group. Since its introduction,

national standard.

just under 500 employees from 19 countries have successfully completed the program.

Advanced and further training
The continuous development and qualification of

For executive managers employed under collective bar-

employees and executive managers is a crucial factor of

gaining agreements in the North America region, we

success in safeguarding the long-term future of the ZF

introduced the iLead training scheme in 2012. By 2014,

Group. HR development at ZF takes account of this and

more than 500 employees in the USA had taken part.

provides a qualification of the relevant target groups that
meets all requirements and needs. Specialist staff and

G4-LA10 Programs that support the continued

executive managers are supported in their current func-

employability of employees

tion or are prepared for new tasks through a variety of

The objective of knowledge management is the con-

support programs and qualification measures. Through

scious, responsible, and systematic handling of knowl-

efficient and modern learning architectures, a large

edge as a resource. In order to retain knowledge in the

workforce is qualified across locations and divisions

organization, ZF implements knowledge batons where

worldwide in accordance with uniform ZF standards.

employees who are leaving the company make their
practical knowledge available to the organization. The

Since 2011, we have been establishing and expanding

documentation of existing know-how takes place via stor-

our academies worldwide. Within the continually grow-

age media that enables knowledge to be shared and

ing academy landscape, executive managers and employ-

exchanged using search engines where employees can

ees are qualified in specialist areas, creating a Group-

input specific queries. Collaboration Rooms, Wikis, and

wide uniform knowledge level. In 2014, the existing

virtual communication media now support the virtual

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

59

cooperation of employees. Best-practice databases store

in the program is obligatory for all executive managers

valuable practical experience and make it available for

that have been certified as suitable for the next manage-

re-use. Expert forums ensure the targeted exchange of

ment level in the ZF SteeR evaluation process before

knowledge and experience. In 2014, we also started

they take up their new responsibility. ZF SteeR (System

introducing Yokoten, a lean management process. This

to evaluate existing Resources) is the Group-wide instru-

instrument provides for horizontal knowledge transfer in

ment for performance and potential assessment of execu-

the organization. It comprises methods of documentation

tive managers. ZF SteeR enables Group-wide HR and

and dissemination of knowledge through functional

successor planning, and simultaneously ensures evalua-

approaches and for the avoidance of repeated errors.

tion of all executive managers using uniform performance and potential criteria.

The suggestion and idea management schemes provide
employees with a platform for the submission of sugges-

Furthermore, ZF introduced a new, worldwide-compliant

tions for improvement and ideas. The ideas@ZF project

short-term incentive (STI) for executive managers in

has established conditions for an idea management pro-

2014. ZF Incentive supplements the existing incentive

cess across all locations. This allows ideas to circulate

model to include elements of individual targets that are

between the German locations. Starting in 2015, it will

taken from the ZF 2025 strategy. A new feature is a year-

spread to international locations. Thanks to the continu-

over-year item in the financial target figures that will

ous improvement process, specific improvement poten-

reflect to a greater degree the requirements of the com-

tial is identified and implemented.

pany to make sustainable, continuous improvements to
our company's results. ZF is planning to introduce a long-

Knowledge and idea management in the Corporate HR

term incentive for top management in 2015 which will

function creates awareness of the effective handling of

integrate sustainable corporate development into our

knowledge and ideas, provides advice, and supports the

performance goals.

professionalization of existing activities as well as the
building of new activities in knowledge and idea manage-

Furthermore, ZF has added a quality facility to its acade-

ment.

mies in order to support the worldwide professionalization of employees in the specialist functions. The acade-

In 2014, the M3 project (Market and Employee-Oriented

mies are intended to inform and train all employees of a

Assembly) won the Demography Excellence Award for

particular function in a uniform way around the world

especially exemplary solutions to demographic chal-

on topics of relevance for their particular responsibility,

lenges. The project aims to define and implement ergo-

therefore increasing their professionalism (see LA9).

nomic and work-organizational design principles.
The first worldwide employee survey, the Global

G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular

Employee Survey (GES), took place in March 2015. The

performance and career development reviews

objective was to identify improvement potential and

In 2013, ZF launched a standardized development land-

derive concrete improvement actions. We asked about

scape under the name pro»motion based on the strategy

work-relevant issues such as working conditions and

to support executive managers prior to a promotion to a

cooperation between employees. Starting in June 2015,

more senior management position. This offers executive

the results will be communicated and improvement mea-

managers the opportunity to systematically prepare for

sures implemented.

the specific responsibilities of their new role and thus
ensures management success within the company. By
basing the learning contents closely on the policies of the
ZF 2025 strategy, pro»motion contributes to establishing
and implementing the strategic objectives. Participation

60

Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities

Since 2006, the ZF location in Friedrichshafen has been
a certified family-friendly company in Germany. As part

G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and

of the “berufundfamilie” (career and family) audit certifi-

breakdown of employees by aspects of diversity

cate, family-related targets and measures are firmly

Three of the ten members of the shareholders of the

established. The objective is to expand existing programs

Supervisory Board are women. No woman is currently

in the company or to establish new ones. ZF initiated an

represented on the Board of Management. On the Super-

audit for the fourth time in 2014. Furthermore, addi-

visory Board, a total of two of the employer representa-

tional family-friendly minimum standards were defined

tives as well as one employee representative are of inter-

and consistently implemented via a work and family

national origin.

expert body.

With the HR strategy as part of ZF 2025, the topic of

Another major milestone in this area is

diversity also came to the fore. ZF understands diversity

ZF's decision to build a company children's daycare cen-

to be the key to success, a driver of innovations, and a

ter at the Friedrichshafen location with 60 all-day places.

company value-enhancing factor. ZF focuses its attention

The opening is scheduled for November 2015. Further-

on four core dimensions that will significantly help to

more, we expanded childcare places throughout the

meet the strategic challenges in the coming years and

Group. What remains equally important is our provision

contribute to the future competitiveness of ZF. These

of daycare for employees' children during school holi-

dimensions are a balanced ratio of genders, aspects such

days at all the large locations in Germany, with some 500

as cultural background or internationality of the work-

places.

force, a variety of experience and expertise, and solutions to demographic changes. All of these factors are

We are actively implementing the aspect of career and

systematically analyzed and processed on a regular basis,

family care as a new field. At the Friedrichshafen loca-

and reported to the Board of Management. With the

tion, several rounds of talks took place on this subject in

introduction of ZF Career Modules for executive manag-

2014, attended by some 500 employees. The program will

ers, we have defined a binding framework for job and

be extended to further locations in 2015.

career decisions. The modules determine criteria for promotion and support multidivisional, multidisciplinary

In accordance with the statutory basis, ZF records the

experience, as well as helping internationalize manage-

handicapped rate for Germany. In 2014, the share of

ment. ZF has been a member of the Diversity Charta

employees with disabilities amounted to 5.5 percent as of

(Charta der Vielfalt) since 2014. This comprises a volun-

the key date of 2014-12-31 (2013: 5.4 percent). In both

tary commitment to the active application of diversity in

years, the level exceeded the share of five percent that

the organization.

the legislator stipulates to the company. As a result, it
was not necessary to make any compensation payments.

In 2014, the percentage of women in the Group
amounted to 15.2 percent (2013: 14.5 percent) – and
with 24.5 percent (2013: 21.9 percent) was at its highest

In addition, company-internal agreements on Mobile

in North America. The aim is to increase this amount by

Working were concluded at the Friedrichshafen location,

introducing various measures such as improvements in

which allows employees to perform up to ten hours of

combining work and family. A career module in the form

their work per week outside their workplace. It aims to

of a social module was introduced which accounts for

improve the work-family balance, at the same time

parental leave, leave to care for relatives, or other types

increasing the attractiveness of ZF as an employer. Cur-

of social commitment. In order to promote equal oppor-

rently, some 800 employees take advantage of this offer.

tunity and employee satisfaction, the compatibility of
work and family at ZF is still an important objective:

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Work

61

Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men
G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of
women to men
At ZF, remuneration is defined according to statutory
requirements as well as, if applicable, collective agreements and/or company regulations. Employee representatives are included in the process according to the requirements in each case. Remuneration advisors are consulted
above all wherever no framework regulations are in
place. Support by remunerations advisors usually consists of the provision of market data which enables ZF to
align remuneration levels with market requirements.
In Germany, the basic salaries of those employed on the
collectively agreed scale are defined in accordance with
the applicable contractual regulations (usually the collective agreements of the metal and electrical industries).
As the evaluation of the position is performed irrespective of the job holder, the principle of same pay for the
same tasks irrespective of gender applies here. The definition of the basic salaries is subject to codetermination
and is therefore monitored in the jointly represented
committees.
The evaluation of executive management positions as a
basis for remuneration benchmarks with the assistance
of the Hay System is also performed irrespective of the
person. Worldwide, the decision lies with the Hay Commissions that also have employee representatives. ZF
cooperates with the Hay Group during the evaluation of
management positions. ZF has procured licenses from
the Hay Group in order to use the PayNet Salary Database for Germany. Licenses for Brazil, India, and China
followed in 2013.

62

Human Rights

mining factors here are performance, personality, skills,
and qualification. Accusations of discrimination will be

Management approach

investigated.

Investments in implementing human rights

Aspect: Investment

In joining the United Nations Global Compact, ZF
declared its commitment to business practices which

G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and

respect human rights. We also require our business part-

contracts that include human rights clauses or screening

ners to observe the first two principles of the United

ZF links all business contracts with adherence to its Busi-

Nations Global Compact. That is why our mandatory

ness Partner Principles, which specify both a declared

Business Partner Principles contain the statement: “Busi-

commitment to sustainable development as well as the

ness partners undertake to adhere to the nationally and

adoption of the principles relating to human rights and

internationally applicable laws and regulations at their

working conditions, quality and environmental manage-

locations worldwide. They are responsible for respecting

ment, employee health and occupational safety, fair mar-

human rights and in particular preserving human dig-

ket practices, and rejection of corruption.

nity.” The ZF Group requires selected suppliers to perform self-assessment on the basis of the Supplier Self

ZF reserves the right to scrutinize the business relation-

Assessment Sustainability. In addition, ZF conducts a

ship with the business partner in case of nonconfor-

risk-based examination for its business partners in order

mance with the Business Partner Principles. In this

to identify possible compliance and integrity risks (Busi-

regard, ZF acts pursuant to the principle of proportional-

ness Partner Compliance Due Diligence).

ity, which means that in each case ZF carefully examines
which consequences are appropriate, suitable, and nec-

In 2014, the Board of Management of ZF resolved that all

essary. This can lead, for example, to immediate termina-

new joint ventures would be contractually bound to

tion of the business relationship as well as to enforce-

implement the ZF Compliance Management System or at

ment of compensation claims.

least a comparable management system. For all existing
joint ventures with a majority-held ZF participation, ZF

Business partners are natural or legal persons, from

Board representatives are called upon to ensure that the

whom ZF procures supplies or services, or vis-à-vis

ZF Compliance Management System is implemented.

whom ZF provides supplies and services, without them
being employees of ZF or companies affiliated with ZF.

Equal treatment

For instance, business partners can be suppliers, custom-

We attach great importance to a corporate culture that is

ers, commercial agents, representatives, intermediaries,

characterized by mutual respect, trust, tolerance, and

consultants, or other providers of goods and services.

fairness. We respect the dignity, privacy, and personal
rights of every individual. It is explicitly formulated in

External service providers in Germany must sign a decla-

the Code of Conduct for our employees that we do not

ration of compliance with collective agreements which

tolerate any discrimination, especially on the grounds of

specifies fair remuneration, compliance with working

race, gender, religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic

times, and rejection of undeclared labor and tax avoid-

origin, disability, belief, sexual orientation, or political

ance. This declaration also applies to subcontractors con-

and trade union engagement. These principles apply to

tracted by ZF and includes the proviso that ZF can check

the recruitment of new employees, to employees with a

compliance at any time.

valid employment contract in relations with each other
and in dealings with our business partners, and to the
professional promotion of our employees. The only deter-

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights

63

G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights
As an integral part of the principles of the UN Global
Compact, human rights are also a binding element of our
Code of Conduct, Corporate Principles, and principles of
social responsibility. Therefore, they are included in our
compliance training courses, which are described in
more detail under G4-SO4.

Aspect: Equal treatment
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken
There were no incidents of discrimination in the reporting
year.

64

Society

ments in their daily work. This entails the task of preventing misconduct and ensuring that risks to the integ-

Management approach

rity and lawfulness of our actions

ZF places great importance on being a recognized part-

▪▪ are identified in advance and in time,

ner in society and actively engaging in social matters at

▪▪ are prevented through suitable measures,

its locations. The ZF Forum, that is currently under con-

▪▪ are correctly responded to in case such risks materialize,

struction, will be open to customers, partners, school
pupils, students, employees, and members of the public,
offering them a vibrant meeting place. Cultural institu-

and, subsequently,
▪▪ the task of identifying the causes in order to prevent
recurrence.

tions such as the ZF Kunststiftung (Art Foundation), and
sports support such as the ZF Arena in Friedrichshafen

ZF communicates the relevant rules to its employees via

illustrate how much we value the local community and

the Code of Conduct and the Compliance Directive.

demonstrate our wish to contribute to society. We
encourage our employees to be active in the community,

Code of Conduct

and give them opportunities to do so, for instance by giv-

The ZF Code of Conduct establishes binding principles

ing them special leave.

for all employees of the ZF Group in their dealings with
each other, with business partners, and the environment.

The ZF Group is fully owned by two foundations which

The new version of the Code of Conduct issued in 2014

receive the dividends paid out. These funds are exclu-

defines eight binding principles for correct, law-abiding,

sively used for charitable and social purposes.

and ethical behavior. Subjects covered here are e.g.
adherence to laws, fair competition, corruption, business

For more details, see G4-7, EC7, and EC8.

and social responsibility, occupational safety, data protection, and transparency. In the reporting year, the Code of

ZF Compliance

Conduct was published on the Intranet page of the Corpo-

For ZF as one of the automotive industry's largest suppli-

rate Compliance department in twenty ZF languages.

ers worldwide, compliance is an essential element of successful management and good corporate governance. It is

We instructed 2 500 executive managers in the ZF Group

both an obligation and an incentive to conduct reliable

to confirm receipt of and compliance with the Code of

and respectful dealings with customers, business part-

Conduct and to communicate it to their colleagues. It is

ners, employees, and the environment. Compliance with

indispensable that all ZF employees know, have read,

existing laws is a major component for business and sus-

and understand the Code of Conduct. To support our

tainable success, and ZF has clearly defined internal reg-

employees, we have provided an online training module

ulations that ensure this. Our principle “If there is no

that clearly explains the contents of the Code of Con-

legal way, there is no way for ZF” underlines our stance

duct.

here. This is the basis for the lasting, trusting cooperation with our employees and business partners.

ZF Group Directive “Compliance”
Supplementary to this, the revised Compliance Directive

All employees are called upon to contribute to ZF's suc-

came into force in the second half of 2014. It describes in

cess through their own actions, everywhere and at all

particular rules regarding anticorruption and antitrust

times. This applies to employees of ZF as well as to exec-

law. Additionally, it spells out how to correctly handle cour-

utive managers and the Board of Management in equal

tesies. An application form is available for favors and ben-

measure. Internal directives apply for every employee

efits that require approval. The following topics are regu-

worldwide and support them in adhering to legal require-

lated by the directive:

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Society

65

▪▪ Responsibilities, tasks, and authorities of the Compli-

Compliance Management System for participations
In 2014, the ZF Board of Management resolved that the

ance Organization
▪▪ Rules for lawful and responsible conduct

respective contracts for all joint ventures must specify

▪▪ Ban on corruption

the binding application of ideally the ZF Compliance

▪▪ Business partner integrity

Management System, or at least a comparable manage-

▪▪ Rules for dealing with business gifts, invitations, and

ment system. For all existing joint ventures with a majority-held ZF participation, ZF Board representatives are

other courtesies
▪▪ Sponsorship and donations

called upon to ensure that the ZF Compliance Manage-

▪▪ Behavior in competition

ment System is implemented.

▪▪ Contacting the Corporate Compliance Office and
reporting incidents.

ZF Trustline, Case Management, and ComplianceHelpdesk
In addition to preventive legal consulting services, train-

ZF Compliance Management System

ing and communications measures, as well as business

The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) creates

partner audits, a case management system was intro-

the framework for meeting these requirements.

duced, which permanently records and evaluates corre-

It focuses on the subjects of anticorruption, antitrust law,

sponding compliance actions. It is connected to our elec-

and larger-scale financial losses for ZF. The CMS meets

tronic notification system ZF Trustline, which employees

the following requirements: independence and effective-

can use to anonymously report suspected serious miscon-

ness of the Compliance Organization, integration of com-

duct – for instance violations of competition and anti-

pliance into business processes, transparent decision pro-

trust law, health protection, occupational safety, corpo-

cesses, and corresponding HR processes (sanctions). The

rate security and environmental protection, or cases of

focus is on preventing violations, based on the three pil-

corruption and conflict of interests. If compliance-related

lars of prevention, detection, and reaction.

questions or uncertainties arise, employees can contact
the Compliance Helpdesk in confidence. The Compli-

The Compliance Organization is set up along the lines of

ance Helpdesk serves as a preventative function since

the organizational structure of the ZF Group of corporate

inquiries about issues can be systematically clarified in

functions, divisions, and regions. Consequently, the

advance.

Compliance Organization is divided into two parts: the
Corporate Compliance department in the corporate

Aspect: Anti-corruption

headquarters and Compliance Officers in the divisions,
business units, regions, and central departments. The

G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks

Compliance Officers are in turn supported by local Com-

related to corruption and risks identified

pliance Delegates at the individual locations.

In the previous year, a Compliance Health Check was
conducted by an independent, external company. The
objective of this analysis was to determine, on the basis

ZF Compliance Organization
Prevent
▪▪Risk analysis
▪▪Regulations
▪▪Communication
▪▪Training
▪▪ComplianceHelpdesk
▪▪Business partner due
diligence

Detect
▪▪Notification
▪▪Investigation
▪▪Monitoring

Respond
▪▪Deriving actions
▪▪Sanctioning misconduct
▪▪Actions monitoring

of the risk profile of ZF, whether the maturity level of
ZF, i.e. the design, adequacy, and functioning of the
Compliance Management System (CMS) is appropriate.
Certain actions were derived from these findings in the
reporting year. Apart from a fundamental reorganization
of the compliance area, we offered for instance additional training and new awareness programs. What's
more, we prepared a new edition of the regular compliance risk analysis, which will take place as from next
year.

66

In terms of compliance, business partners can pose a risk

The Corporate Compliance Intranet page was expanded

if their actions or also failures to act can be attributed to

in the reporting year. Apart from basic information such

ZF. As a result, ZF can be held liable if no suitable pre-

as guidelines on antitrust law or the Code of Conduct,

cautionary measures were taken, for example to prevent

the portal lists all local compliance contacts. Also in

bribery. Therefore, all business functions of our company

2014, we issued the first Compliance Newsletter, which

are obliged to take suitable measures – preferably before

as from now will be issued twice per year to inform

business relations with a partner are taken up – to

above all the contacts and all interested employees about

ensure that the business partners are adequately exam-

current topics and projects in the area of compliance. We

ined and instructed.

also use our “we move” employee magazine as an information medium.

In 2012, the ZF Compliance department started preventatively examining certain business partners. We selected

If employees have urgent questions regarding compliance

a risk-based approach according to which only business

issues, they can contact Compliance via phone or e-mail.

partners are examined that pose a higher compliance
risk due to their business model. These include interme-

Training opportunities

diaries, agents, and service providers. They are checked

ZF has integrated target-group-oriented compliance train-

to determine whether the integrity of the individual or

ing courses in its training concept. The objective of the

company is ensured, the associated contracts are avail-

training courses is to firmly anchor compliance in

able or need to be renewed, and whether the invoiced

employees' consciousness and in this way to prevent

amount paid by ZF corresponds to the services provided.

legally critical acts. The courses convey knowledge and
promote the ability to act in critical situations. For dem-

In order to support employees in selecting a new busi-

onstration purposes, the training courses address aspects

ness partner in future, a guideline was drafted in 2014,

from everyday work in order to put what has been

which will become binding in the course of 2015.

learned into practice.

G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption

Classroom training

A core element of our strategy against corruption is the

Classroom training offers the opportunity to directly

function of our executive managers as role models who

exchange ideas and experience regarding compliance-rel-

act in accordance with our values and communicate

evant topics and questions. Therefore, ZF attaches great

them to the employees. Our Code of Conduct, which

importance to the participants' active involvement in the

contains a clear ban on corruption, is binding for all

training courses, for instance by jointly working through

employees worldwide. For this reason, we instructed

case studies or by discussing case studies relevant to

approx. 2 500 executive managers in the ZF Group to

everyday work.

comply with the Code of Conduct and to communicate it
to their employees as well as to ensure it is followed.

In 2014, the Compliance Delegates went through special,
extensive compliance training that provided on-site sup-

Information provided

port and helped communicate a uniform message. Sup-

Compliance communication serves to sensitize employ-

plementary to the training activities for Materials Man-

ees and to convey values and expectations with regard to

agement employees in 2012, ZF started advanced

employee conduct. Through a range of communication

training in the 2nd half of 2014. Furthermore, we imple-

actions, we ensure compliance is firmly anchored at ZF,

mented the training series “Compliance for Executive

and continuously inform employees about current com-

Assistants and other Assistants” which will be continued

pliance topics via various communication channels.

in 2015.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Society

67

Online training
Online training supplements classroom training and
serves to convey broad, non-limited knowledge to all
employees.
To replace the basic compliance training course put
together in 2009, we introduced a new online training
course in 2014 about the Code of Conduct which clearly
explains the 8 principles using examples. All ZF employees, in particular new employees, are encouraged to complete the online training which is available on the
Intranet.
To prevent the risk of a violation of antitrust law, ZF
implemented an online training course on antitrust law
in 2014, which, in addition to a general module, also
included two further modules providing special knowledge for employees from Sales and Materials Management. Executive managers were obliged to complete the
antitrust law online training.

G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and
actions taken
As in the previous year, no confirmed incidents of corruption occurred.

Aspect: Anti-competition behavior
G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,
anti-trust, and monopoly practices
In South America, the antitrust authorities searched a ZF
plant on suspicion of the infringement of competition
rules in September 2014.

68

Product Responsibility

left sides. In addition, several projects are up and running in order to further advance developments to the

Management approach

electric drive.

Our enthusiasm for innovative products and processes

An innovation prototype was set up to demonstrate ZF's

and our uncompromising pursuit of quality have made us

expertise and the approaches to finding solutions in the

a global leader in driveline and chassis technology, as

area of driver assistance systems. The long-distance

well as in active and passive safety technology. We are

truck with a length of 25 meters proves that it can be

contributing toward a sustainable future by producing

very easy with the aid of modern technology to steer and

advanced technology solutions with the goal of improv-

move a large truck-trailer combination weighing up to 60

ing mobility, increasing the efficiency of our products

tons using remote control in maneuvering mode with

and systems, and conserving resources. Improvements in

centimeter accuracy. Further assistance in this respect

energy efficiency, cost-effectiveness, dynamics, safety,

comes courtesy of the electric drive in the hybrid con-

and comfort are key to our work. The aspects of safety

cept, which provides very precise yet zero-emission driv-

and energy efficiency (with their associated environmen-

ing. The concept went down extremely well with custom-

tal protection) are key elements of product responsibility

ers and the public in general. With the acquisition of

for ZF because they help to prevent accidents and protect

TRW initiated last year, we took a big step toward round-

the health of traffic participants. At ZF, sustainability is

ing off our technology portfolio and further increasing

not another product development objective; it is an inte-

our competencies in the areas of safety, advanced driver

gral part of our company worldwide.

assistance systems, and autonomous driving.

Founded in 2013, the ZF Composites Tech Center in Sch-

When it comes to products in the mobility area, the

weinfurt (Germany) for the advanced engineering of pro-

safety of traffic participants is paramount. That is why

duction technologies for fiber-reinforced plastics (FRP)

our responsibility for our products includes an uncom-

achieved its first successes in the reporting year. It works

promising dedication to quality. Our ZF4Q quality strat-

in close cooperation with Product Development in a host

egy is derived from the ZF 2025 corporate strategy. It

of projects to develop the basis for the volume produc-

focuses on products and customers. The ZF Quality Man-

tion of innovative lightweight components made out of

agement System is based on three elements: Quality

thermosetting and thermoplastic FRP materials. In 2014,

Planning as a synonym for prevention, Quality Assur-

Advanced Engineering continued its work on a passenger

ance to secure the current volume production, and Qual-

car rear axle composed entirely of fiber-reinforced plas-

ity Management to shape processes and structures. The

tics material.

goal is to implement all processes, both industrial as well
as business processes, at a high level of maturity and to

In the context of target fleet values for CO2 emissions,

continually improve them in line with the ZF Production

we are continuously further developing conventional

System.

drives and hybrid drives. For a long time, ZF has been
working hard to push forward e-mobility in addition to

At the same time, the Quality Organization will be ana-

hybrid technology. Thanks to our competencies in the

lyzed and receive an even more global focus in the

areas of drive and electronics as well as their intelligent

future. Working in partnership with our suppliers also

networking, we generate innovations meeting practical

plays an important role for us. After all, we will only be

requirements. Based on the central electric drive, ZF

able to jointly achieve our quality objectives if the entire

implemented a model whereby the electric drive is inte-

supply chain is optimally coordinated.

grated into the chassis near the wheel on the right and

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility

69

The Quality Strategy focuses on our employees, whose

NHTSA. To meet these reporting obligations, officers are

expertise in the field of quality will increase through the

appointed in the divisions who act as internal contacts

newly established ZF Q Academy.

and ensure all incidents that require reporting are logged
and communicated. Safety-relevant defects, accidents

Moreover, ZF motivates employees to remain constantly

that can be attributed to a ZF component, and safety

involved in the continuous improvement process. Our

recalls are included in the reporting obligation.

“Total Quality Management” contest was held for the
20th time in 2014. Overall, more than 1 100 employees

Group Directive 09-04 has a lessons-learned function,

worldwide entered the competition with around 340

governing a Group-wide process to ensure the effective

projects, which not only contributed to quality improve-

elimination of defects or faults that arise at the custom-

ments, but also initiated product innovations and produc-

ers', for instance in the assembly plants or in the field.

tion improvements.

The directive determines the responsibilities of Quality
Management Officers for analysis and improvement

Product safety

actions in the overall ZF organization as well as commu-

Passenger and goods transport presents companies with

nication with customers.

special challenges in the area of product safety. That is
why ZF places great importance on the safe use of prod-

Group Directive 06-16 anchors the application of safety

ucts and protection of the end users. Our enthusiasm for

standards such as IEC 61508 or ISO 26262 during the

innovative products and our uncompromising pursuit of

new and further development of safety-relevant, mecha-

quality have made us a global leader in driveline and

tronic systems. Compliance with the process steps is

chassis technology, as well as in active and passive safety

ensured and documented by the implemented indepen-

technology. Despite increasing product complexity, stan-

dent reviews.

dardized product development processes and continuous
quality control guarantee absolutely reliable components

However, at ZF product safety starts in their preliminary

that support the driver and help prevent accidents. Vari-

stages. As the quality of our products is considerably

ous group directives guarantee compliance with our

influenced by our suppliers' quality performance, Direc-

quality standards and statutory requirements as well as

tive 83 defines extensive supply chain requirements. It

ensuring effective handling of customer-specific

requires our suppliers to implement a quality manage-

demands.

ment system and prescribes measures that ensure
smooth-running processes between suppliers and ZF.

Group Directive 92-13 communicates a uniform basic

The directive is regularly updated and must be imple-

understanding and provides the framework for ZF prod-

mented by all suppliers as an element of purchasing

uct developments. In line with the customer-specific

terms and conditions, supply contracts, and general

requirements, the individual business units design the

terms and conditions of business.

sequence of their product evolution process themselves
within the framework defined by the directive. This

Improvement of driving safety

directive defines both the release stages (gates) that must

Our customers welcome our determined focus on prod-

be passed within the product evolution process to obtain

ucts and services, which provide great customer value.

release, and the minimum requirements that must be ful-

This includes a focus on continuous improvement of

filled to pass the individual gates.

driving safety and increasing digitalization and networking. The acquisition of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.

Directives 03-07 and 09-06 govern the information flow

increases ZF competencies in this area and ensures

regarding quality aspects and how to deal with reporting

access to groundbreaking technologies in the areas of

obligations to customers and authorities such as the US

active and passive safety, advanced driver assistance sys-

National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,

tems, and autonomous driving. ZF's active systems are

70

strategy-capable. This means that they can also be linked

We basically differentiate between two product catego-

with an electronic control network that is more intelli-

ries, each of which is subject to specific Group Directives:

gent and acts in a more flexible manner than the sum of
the individual systems, thus taking active safety in the
vehicle to a new level.

▪▪ Products with integrated software
• DG 06-11 (Process Requirements for the Development of Systems With Integrated Software)

The development and improvement of passive and active

• GD 06/16 (Functional safety of electrical and

accident prevention systems are subject to guidelines
that require stringent risk assessment of these systems,
and in this way guarantee they are failsafe. Directive

electronic systems with software)
▪▪ Products without integrated software
• KR92/13 (Releases in the product development

06/11 determines the handling of customer requirements

process)

for products with integrated software, and standardizes

These directives apply for the entire ZF Group and all

procedures for their development. It encompasses the

products it manufactures.

determination and analysis of the system requirements,
the system design, the function and software develop-

Usually, customer specifications and statutory regula-

ment activities as well as system integration, testing, vali-

tions are available for both product categories, which we

dation, and release.

then supplement with in-house test specifications based
on ZF product expertise. The group directives determine

Product labeling

the process for dealing with and ensuring adherence to

ZF operates chiefly in the B2B area and supplies compo-

these specifications. At decisive points in the project

nents for installation in products for end consumers. As

progress, we test components individually, in assemblies,

our products are not visible to the end consumer, product

and in overall systems on test benches under the relevant

labeling is of little importance. We supply our customers

duty cycles and then evaluate the results. Depending on

with data and information about our products and the

the provisions, we also perform tests in the overall vehi-

materials used, which ensure proper handling and safe

cle.

use.
Our uncompromising approach to product quality contin-

Aspect: Customer health and safety

ues in manufacturing. Therefore, even in the development process, we draw up requirements specific to the

G4-PR1 Share of significant products and services

means of production as well as the properties of the

assessed for health and safety

means of production and equipment derived from these

Safety is extremely important across the entire automo-

requirements.

tive industry. People need to rely 100 percent on the
technology wherever passengers and goods are trans-

This is how ZF guarantees its manufacturing locations

ported. This requirement starts with a matter of course:

worldwide use stable processes in production which

Safety-relevant systems and components in vehicles must

ensure the shipped products comply with the specifica-

perform their tasks in a reliable manner and may not

tions agreed with the customer during development.

break down. With its product focus on driveline and
chassis technology, ZF products are central to vehicle

A further stage in the product life cycle is the implemen-

and occupant safety.

tation by appropriately trained Customer Service personnel of service concepts designed during the development

ZF applies stringent benchmarks right from component
development and through design and materials selection.
Just one example of our holistic approach is ZF standard
ZFN 9005 for environmentally friendly product design.

process.

GENERAL Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures
Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility

71

G4-PR2 Percentage of significant product and service

tion definition, collection, and analysis, as well as data

categories for which health and safety impacts are

comparability over time. The results will enable us to

assessed

develop more targeted, precise improvement actions.

Approximately 90 percent of our products relate to the
automotive sector. Product defects that caused a vehicle
recall did not occur in this reporting year. The reasons
for high-grade product safety are efficient processes as
outlined in GD 92-13 ranging from product development,
through incoming goods inspections, supplier support,
and production protection to failure analysis in the field.

Aspect: Product and service labeling
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer
satisfaction
An extremely close and long-standing cooperation
between manufacturers and suppliers is common in the
automotive sector. This particularly applies to the suppliers that provide significant and technologically complex
vehicle components. In doing so, they must be oriented
towards the comprehensive specifications of the manufacturers that are often drafted together. Delivery reliability and innovative ability are important criteria for
the customers. As a large portion of vehicle innovations
originate from the suppliers, the R&D activities are decisive for long-term customer satisfaction and business success. Every new order can be seen as an indicator of customer satisfaction.
At present, ZF does not carry out central studies of customer satisfaction; instead the individual business units
measure satisfaction and derive appropriate actions
within their own areas of responsibility. The business
units are in direct contact with their customers and have
direct access to their own product range. They have the
obligation to take suitable measures in the event of possible deviations.
As part of the introduction of a central Key Account
Management in 2015, we are planning a central customer satisfaction survey, a so-called Voice of the Customer (VoC), with a pilot customer. The VoC is an independent assessment of satisfaction carried out by an
independent, external, and globally operating service
provider that ensures a systematic approach to informa-

GRI Content Index
and Progress
Communication on
Progress to UN Global Compact
Information on the G4 indicators

Page

UN GC

Omission

Check

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1	Statement from the most senior decision-maker

4

–

G4-2	Key impacts, risks, and opportunities concerning sustainability

4–10

–

G4-3	Name of the organization

11

–

G4-4	Primary brands, products, and services

11

–

G4-5	Location of the organization’s headquarters

11

–

G4-6	Countries with significant operations

11

–

G4-7	Nature of ownership and legal form

11

–

G4-8	Markets served

12

–

G4-9

12

Organizational Profile

Scale of the organization

–

G4-10	Employees by employment type, gender and region

12–13

6

–

G4-11	Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements

13

3

–

G4-12	Description of the supply chain

13

–

G4-13	Significant changes during the reporting period

13–14

–

G4-14	Implementation of the precautionary principle

14

–

G4-15

14

–

14–15

–

G4-17	Entities included in the consolidated financial statements

16

–

G4-18	Process for defining the report content

16

–

G4-19	Material Aspects identified

17

–

G4-20	Aspect Boundaries within the organization

17

–

G4-21	Aspect Boundaries outside the organization

17

–

G4-22	Restatemtents of information provided in previous reports

18

–

G4-23

18

–

External initiatives that the organization endorses

G4-16	Significant memberships in industry and business associations
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries

Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries

Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24

19

–

G4-25	Identification and selection of stakeholders

Stakeholder groups engaged

19

–

G4-26	Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency

19

–

G4-27	Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder
engagement and response

19–20

–

G4-28	Reporting period

21

–

G4-29	Date of most recent previous report

21

–

G4-30	Reporting cycle

21

–

G4-31

Contact point for questions regarding the report

21

–

G4-32

“In accordance” option with GRI and Content Index chosen

21

–

21

–

Report Profile

G4-33	External verification of the report

GRI Content Index

73

Information on the G4 indicators

Page

UN GC

Omission

Check

Governance
G4-34	Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest
governance body

22

–

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56	Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior

23

10

–

Aspect:	Economic performance – Management approach

24

7

–

G4-EC1	Direct economic value created and distributed

25

G4-EC2	Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change

26–27

7

–

G4-EC3	Coverage of benefit plan obligations

27

–

G4-EC4

28

–

Category: Economic

Financial assistance received from government

–

Aspect:	Market presence – Management approach

24–25

6

–

G4-EC5	Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local
minimum wage

28

6

–

G4-EC6	Proportion of senior management hired from the local
community

28–29

6

–

Aspect:	Indirect economic impacts – Management approach

25

–

G4-EC7	Infrastructure investments and services provided

29

–

G4-EC8	Indirect economic impacts

29–30

–

Aspect:	Procurement Practices – Management approach

25

–

G4-EC9	Proportion of spending on local suppliers

30

–

Category: Environmental
Aspect:	Materials – Management approach

34

7, 8

–

G4-EN1	Materials used by weight or volume

35

7, 8

–

G4-EN2

35

8

33

7, 8, 9

Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials

Aspect:	Energy – Management approach

Quantitative information on the extent of recycled materials used will
be reported as from 2016, subject to
other decisions.

–

–

G4-EN3	Energy consumption within the organization

36

7, 8

–

G4-EN4	Energy consumption outside the organization

36

8

–

G4-EN5	Energy intensity

37

8

–

G4-EN6	Reduction in energy consumption

37-38

8, 9

–

G4-EN7	Reduction of the energy requirements of products and services

38

8, 9

–

Aspect:	Water – Management approach

33

7, 8

G4-EN8	Total water withdrawal by sources

38

7, 8

G4-EN9	Water sources significantly affected

39

8

–
We report on water consumption by
ZF in relation to sales.

–
–

G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused

39

8

–

Aspect:	Emissions – Management approach

33

7, 8, 9

–

G4-EN15	Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)

39

7, 8

–

G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)

39

7, 8

–

G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)

39

7, 8

–

G4-EN18	Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity

39

8

–

74

Information on the G4 indicators

Page

UN GC

G4-EN19	Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions

39–40

8, 9

Omission

Check
–

G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)

40

7, 8

–

G4-EN21	NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions

40

7, 8

–

Aspect:	Effluents and Waste – Management approach

33–34

8

–

G4-EN22	Total water discharge by quality and destination

40–41

8

–

G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method

41

8

We report on waste volume
generated by ZF in relation to sales.

–

G4-EN24	Total number and volume of significant spills

41

8

–

G4-EN25 Handling of hazardous waste

41

8

–

G4-EN26	Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water
and runoff

42

8

–

Aspect:	Products and services – Management approach

35

7, 8, 9

–

G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services

42–43

7, 8, 9

–

G4-EN28	Reclaimed products and packaging

43

8

–

Aspect:	Compliance – Management approach

31

8

–

G4-EN29	Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental
regulations

44

8

–

Aspect:	Transport – Management approach

33

8

–

G4-EN30	Significant environmental impacts of transports

44

8

–

Aspect:	Overall – Management approach

31

7, 8, 9

–

G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments

45

7, 8, 9

–

Aspect:	Supplier Environmental Assessment –
Management approach

45–46

8

–

G4-EN32	Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
environmental criteria

47–48

8

–

G4-EN33	Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain

48

8

–

Aspect:	Employment – Management approach

49

6

–

G4-LA1

55

6

Category: Social
Labor practices and decent work
New employee hires and employee turnover

–

G4-LA2	Benefits provided to full-time employees

55

G4-LA3	Return to work and retention rates after parental leave

55

Currently, we only report on
employee turnover in the ZF Group
in terms of regional differences.

–

–
6

–

Aspect:	Labor/Management Relations – Management approach

51

3

–

G4-LA4	Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes

55

3

–

Aspect:	Occupational health and safety – Management approach

51

–

G4-LA5	Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety
committees

56

–

G4-LA6	Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related
fatalities

56

–

G4-LA7

57

–

57

–

Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases

G4-LA8	Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with
trade unions

GRI Content Index

75

Information on the G4 indicators

Page

UN GC

Aspect:

53

6

G4-LA9	Average hours of training

57–58

6

G4-LA10	Programs that support the continued employability of employees

58–59

G4-LA11	Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
career development reviews

59

6

–

Aspect:	Diversity and equal opportunities – Management approach

54

6

–

G4-LA12	Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of
employees by aspects of diversity

60

6

Aspect:	Equal Remuneration for Women and Men –
Management approach

54

6

G4-LA13	Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men

61

6

Aspect:	Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices –
Management approach

45–46

–

G4-LA14	Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor
practices criteria

47–48

–

G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the supply chain

48

–

Training and Education – Management approach

Omission

Check
–

A central assessment of the number
of participants and training hours
is not yet possible on a Group-wide
basis. For 2015, we wish to expand
the education and vocational training
data for selected programs.

–

–

We do not report on the share of minorities in our workforce. This information must be treated confidentially
and is not collected for reasons of
rights to privacy.

–

–
Quantified data on salaries is not
published as it is subject to confidentiality.

–

Human Rights
Aspect:	Investment – Management approach

62

1, 2

–

G4-HR1	Significant investment agreements and contracts that include
human rights clauses or screening

62

2

–

G4-HR2

63

1

–

Employee training on human rights issues

Aspect:	Non-discrimination – Management approach

63

6

–

G4-HR3

63

6

–

Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken

Aspect:	Supplier Human Rights Assessment – Management approach

45–46

2

–

G4-HR10	Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human
rights criteria

48

2

–

G4-HR11	Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain

48

2

–

Society
Aspect:	Anti-corruption – Management approach

64

10

–

G4-SO3	
Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to
corruption and risks identified

65–66

10

–

G4-SO4	
Communication and training on anti-corruption

66–67

10

–

10

–

G4-SO5	
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

67

Aspect:	Anti-competitive behavior – Management approach

64–65

–

G4-SO7	
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and
monopoly practices

67

–

76

Information on the G4 indicators

Page

Aspect:	Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society –
Management approach

45–46

UN GC

Omission

Check
–

G4-SO9	
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria
for impacts on society

48

–

G4-SO10	
Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions
taken

48

–

Aspect:	Customer health and safety – Management approach

68

–

G4-PR1	
Percentage of significant product and service categories for
which health and safety impacts are assessed

70

–

G4-PR2	
Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products
and services

71

–

Aspect:	Product and service labeling – Management approach

70

–

G4-PR5	
Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction

71

–

Product Responsibility

Imprint
77

ZF Friedrichshafen AG
D-88038 Friedrichshafen
Germany
Phone +49 7541 77-0
Fax
+49 7541 77-908000
www.zf.com
Contact
Christine Betz
ZF Friedrichshafen AG
Corporate Compliance/Sustainability
Graf-von-Soden-Platz 1
88038 Friedrichshafen
E-mail: sustainability@zf.com
Editorial deadline: June 30, 2015

The report is available in German and English; both versions are available
online for download at www.zf.com.
TraXon, 8HP, and ZF-TERRA+ are registered trademarks of
ZF Friedrichshafen AG.
Consultancy, text, and layout
akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, D-80469 Munich, Germany

ZF Friedrichshafen AG
D-88038 Friedrichshafen
Germany
Phone +49 7541 77-0
Fax
+49 7541 77-908000
www.zf.com

